The Breakfast Factory
The Basics of Production:
Delivering a Breakfast
(or a College Graduate, or a Compiler, or a Convicted Criminal...)
The Three-Minute Egg
To understand the principles of production, imagine that you're a waiter, which I was
while I went to college, and that your task is to serve a breakfast consisting of a three-
minute soft-boiled egg, buttered toast, and coffee. Your job is to prepare and deliver the
three items simultaneously, each of them fresh and hot.
The task here encompasses the basic requirements of production. These are to build
and deliver products in response to the demands of the customer at a scheduled delivery
time, at an acceptable quality level, and at the lowest possible cost. Production’s charter
cannot be to deliver whatever the customer wants whenever he wants it, for this would
require an infinite production capacity or the equivalent—very large, ready-to-deliver
inventories. In our example, the customer may want to have a perfect three-minute egg
with hot buttered toast and steaming coffee waiting for him the moment he sits down.
To fulfill such an expectation, you would either have to have your kitchen idle and poised
to serve the customer whenever he drops in, or have a ready-to-consume inventory of
perfectly boiled eggs, hot buttered toast, and coffee. Neither is practical.
Instead, a manufacturer should accept the responsibility of delivering a product at
the time committed to—in this case, by implication, about five to ten minutes after the
customer arrives at our breakfast establishment. And we must make our breakfast at a
cost that enables us to sell it at a competitive price and still make an acceptable profit.
How are we going to do this in the most intelligent way? We start by looking at our
The first thing we must do is to pin down the step in the flow that will determine the
overall shape of our operation, which we'll call the limiting step. The issue here is simple:
which of the breakfast components takes the longest to prepare? Because the coffee is
already steaming in the kitchen and the toast takes only about a minute, the answer is
obviously the egg, so we should plan the entire job around the time needed to boil it. Not
only does that component take the longest to prepare, the egg is also for most customers
the most important feature of the breakfast.
What must happen is illustrated opposite. To work back from the time of delivery,
you'll need to calculate the time required to prepare the three components to ensure that
they are all ready simultaneously. First you must allow time to assemble the items on a
tray. Next you must get the toast from the toaster and the coffee from the pot, as well as
the egg out of the boiling water, Adding the required time to do this to the time needed
to get and cook the egg defines the length of the entire process—called, in production
jargon, the total throughput time.
Now you come to the toast. Using the egg time as your base, you must allow yourself
time to get and toast the slices of bread. Finally, using the toast time as your base, you
can determine when you need to pour the coffee. The key idea is that we construct our
production flow by starting with the longest (or most difficult, or most sensitive, or most
expensive) step and work our way back. Notice when each of the three steps began and
ended. We planned our flow around the most critical step—the time required to boil the
ege—and we staggered each of the other steps according to individual throughput times;
again in production jargon, we offset them from each other.
(Customer Order) Deliver
Making the eggs is the limiting step.
The idea of a limiting step has very broad applicability. Take, for example, the need to
recruit college graduates to work for Intel. Certain of our managers visit the colleges,
interview some of the seniors, and invite the more promising candidates to visit the
company. We bear the expense of the candidates’ trip, which can be considerable. During
the trip, the students are closely interviewed by other managers and technical people.
After due consideration, employment is offered to some of the students whose skills and
capabilities match our needs best, and those who accept the offers eventually come to
work for the company.
To apply the basic principle of production, you need to build the sequence here around
its most expensive feature, which is the students’ trip to the plant, thanks to the cost
of travel and the time that Intel managers spend with the candidates. To minimize the
use of this step per final college hire, we obviously have to increase the ratio of accepted
offers to applicants invited to visit the plant, which we do by using phone interviews
to screen people before issuing invitations. The technique saves money, substantially
increases the ratio of offers extended per plant visit, and reduces the need to use the
expensive limiting step per hire.
The principle of time offsets is also present here. Working back from the time the
students will graduate, the recruiter staggers the various steps involved to allow time for
everything—on-campus interviews, phone screening, plant visits—to take place at the
appropriate times during the months preceding graduation.
Other production principles underlie the preparation of our breakfast. In the making
of it, we find present the three fundamental types of production operations: process
manufacturing, an activity that physically or chemically changes material just as boiling
changes an egg; assembly, in which components are put together to constitute a new
entity just as the egg, the toast, and the coffee together make a breakfast; and test, which
subjects the components or the total to an examination of its characteristics. There are,
for example, visual tests made at points in the breakfast production process: you can see
that the coffee is steaming and that the toast is brown.
Process, assembly, and test operations can be readily applied to other very different
kinds of productive work. Take, for instance, the task of training a sales force to sell
a new product. The three types of production operations can be easily identified. The
conversion of large amounts of raw data about the product into meaningful selling
strategies comprehensible to the sales personnel is a process step, which transforms data
into strategies. The combination of the various sales strategies into a coherent program
can be compared to an assembly step. Here the appropriate product-selling strategies
and pertinent market data (such as competitive pricing and availability) are made to
flow into one presentation, along with such things as brochures, handouts, and flip
charts. The test operation comes in the form of a “dry run” presentation with a selected
group of field sales personnel and field sales management. [f the dry run fails the test, the
material must be “reworked” (another well-established manufacturing concept) to meet
the concerns and objections of the test audience.
The development of a “compiler,” a major piece of computer software, also
demonstrates process, assembly, and test. A computer understands and uses human
instruction only if it receives such instruction in its own language. A compiler is an
interpreter, enabling the computer to translate into its language material written in
terms and phrases resembling English. With a compiler, a programmer can think more
or less like a human being rather than having to adapt himself to the way the computer
processes information. The task of getting a machine to interpret and translate in this
fashion is obviously formidable; thus the development of a compiler takes strenuous
effort on the part of skilled and gifted software engineers. The effort, however, is justified
by the simplification it brings to computer use.
In any case, the development of the individual pieces out of which a compiler is
built represents a series of processing steps. Actual working pieces of software are
generated out of specifications and basic design know-how. Each piece then undergoes
an individual operation called a “unit test.” When one fails, the defective portion of
the software is returned to the process phase for “rework.” After all the pieces pass
their respective unit tests, they are assembled to form the compiler. Then, of course, a
“system test” is performed on the complete product before it is shipped to the customer.
Time offsets are used extensively in the task. Because throughput times for the various
engineering steps are well established, the timing of the releases of various bodies of
software from one stage to another can all be calculated and staged in advance.
Breakfast preparation, college recruiting, sales training, and compiler design are very
much unlike one another, but all of them possess a basically similar flow of activity to
produce a specific output.
A Few Complications
Real life, as you know, is full of thickets and underbrush. In a schematic flow chart, our
breakfast operation assumed infinite capacity, meaning that nobody had to wait for an
available toaster or for a pot to boil an egg in. But no such ideal world exists. What would
happen if you had to stand in a line of waiters, waiting for your turn to use the toaster? If
you didn’t adjust your production flow to account for the queue, your three-minute egg
could easily become a six-minute egg. So limited toaster capacity means you have to redo
your flow around the new limiting step. The egg still determines the overall quality of
the breakfast, but your time offsets must be altered.
How would our model reflect the change in manufacturing flow? Working back from
the time of breakfast delivery, let’s see how the production is affected, as illustrated
opposite, The egg cycle remains the same, as does the one for coffee. But limited toaster
capacity makes for quite a difference. Now you must account for the delivery time of the
toast and the wait for a free toaster. This means the whole production process has to be
conceived differently. Toaster capacity has become the limiting step, and what you do
has to be reworked around it.
(Customer Order) Deliver
get wait for
With limited toaster capacity, making the toast becomes the limiting step.
Now let’s complicate things a little further. What happens if you are stuck in line
waiting for a toaster when it’s time to start boiling your egg? Your conflict is seemingly
irreconcilable, but it really isn’t. If you were managing the restaurant, you could turn
your personnel into specialists by hiring one egg-cooker, one toast-maker, one coffee-
pourer, and one person to supervise the operation. But that, of course, creates an
immense amount of overhead, probably making it too expensive to consider.
If you were a waiter, you could ask the waiter in line next to you to help out—to
put your toast in while you ran off to start your egg. But when you have to depend on
someone else, the results are likely to be less predictable. As the manager, you could add
another toaster, but this becomes an expensive addition of capital equipment. You could
run the toaster continuously and build up an inventory of hot toast, throwing away what
you can't use but always having immediate access to product. That means waste, which
can also become too expensive for the operation. But at least you know that alternatives
do exist: equipment capacity, manpower, and inventory can be traded off against each
other and then balanced against delivery time.
Because each alternative costs money, your task is to find the most cost-effective way to
deploy your resources—the key to optimizing all types of productive work. Bear in mind
that in this and in other such situations there is a right answer, the one that can give you
the best delivery time and product quality at the lowest possible cost. To find that right
answer, you must develop a clear understanding of the trade-offs between the various
factors—manpower, capacity, and inventory—and you must reduce the understanding
to a quantifiable set of relationships. You probably won't use a stopwatch to conduct
a time-and-motion study of the person behind a toaster; nor will you calculate the
precise trade-off between the cost of toast inventory and the added toaster capacity in
mathematical terms. What is important is the thinking you force yourself to go through
to understand the relationship between the various aspects of your production process.
Let’s take our manufacturing example a step further and turn our business into a
high-volume breakfast factory operation. First, you buy a continuous egg-boiler that will
produce a constant supply of perfectly boiled three-minute eggs. It will look something
like what’s drawn in the figure opposite. Note that our business now assumes a high and
predictable demand for three-minute eggs; it cannot now readily provide a four-minute
egg, because automated equipment is not very flexible. Second, you match the output
of the continuous egg-boiler with the output of a continuous toaster, as specialized
personnel load each piece of equipment and deliver the product. We have now turned
things into a continuous operation at the expense of flexibility, and we can no longer
prepare each customer's order exactly when and how he requests it. So our customers
have to adjust their expectations if they want to enjoy the benefits of our new mode:
lower cost and more predictable product quality.
Se EEE ial a
The continuous egg-boiler; a constant supply of three-minute eggs.
But continuous operation does not automatically mean lower cost and better quality.
What would happen if the water temperature in the continuous egg-boiler quietly went
out of specification? The entire work-in-process—all the eggs in the boiler—and the
output of the machine from the time the temperature climbed or dropped to the time
the malfunction was discovered becomes unusable. All the toast is also wasted because
you don’t have any eggs to serve with it. How do you minimize the risk of a breakdown
of this sort? Performing a functional test is one way. From time to time you open an
egg as it comes out of the machine and check its quality. But you will have to throw
away the ege tested. A second way involves in-process inspection, which can take many
forms. You could, for example, simply insert a thermometer into the water so that the
temperature could be easily and frequently checked. To avoid having to pay someone to
read the thermometer, you could connect an electronic gadget to it that would set off
bells anytime the temperature varied by a degree or two. The point is that whenever
possible, you should choose in-process tests over those that destroy product.
What else could go wrong with our continuous egg-machine? The eggs going into it
could be cracked or rotten, or they could be over- or undersized, which would affect how
fast they cook. To avoid such problems, you will want to look at the eggs at the time of
receipt, something called incoming or receiving inspection. If the eggs are unacceptable
in some way, you are going to have to send them back, leaving you with none. Now
you have to shut down. To avoid that, you need a raw material inventory. But how large
should it be? The principle to be applied here is that you should have enough to cover
your consumption rate for the length of time it takes to replace your raw material. That
means if your egg man comes by and delivers once a day, you want to keep a day’s worth
of inventory on hand to protect yourself. But remember, inventory costs money, so you
have to weigh the advantage of carrying a day’s supply against the cost of carrying it.
Besides the cost of the raw material and the cost of money, you should also try to gauge
the opportunity at risk: what would it cost if you had to shut your egg machine down for
aday? How many customers would you lose? How much would it cost to lure them back?
Such questions define the opportunity at risk.
All production flows have a basic characteristic: the material becomes more valuable
as it moves through the process. A boiled egg is more valuable than a raw one, a
fully assembled breakfast is more valuable than its constituent parts, and finally, the
breakfast placed in front of the customer is more valuable still. The last carries the
perceived value the customer associates with the establishment when he drives into the
parking lot after seeing the sign “Andy's Better Breakfasts.” Similarly, a finished compiler
is more valuable than the constituent parts of semantic analysis, code generation, and
run time, and a college graduate to whom we are ready to extend an employment offer is
more valuable to us than the college student we meet on campus for the first time.
A common rule we should always try to heed is to detect and fix any problem in a
production process at the lowest-value stage possible. Thus, we should find and reject the
rotten egg as it’s being delivered from our supplier rather than permitting the customer
to find it. Likewise, if we can decide that we don’t want a college candidate at the time of
the campus interview rather than during the course of a plant visit, we save the cost of
the trip and the time of both the candidate and the interviewers. And we should also try
to find any performance problem at the time of the unit test of the pieces that make upa
compiler rather than in the course of the test of the final product itself.
Finally, at the risk of being considered hard-hearted, let's examine the criminal
justice system as if it were a production process aimed at finding criminals and putting
them into jail. The production begins when a crime is reported to the police and the
police respond. In many instances, after some questions are asked, no further action
can be taken. For those crimes which the police can pursue, the second step is more
investigation. But the case often ends here for lack of evidence, complaints being
dropped, and so on. If things move to the next stage, a suspect is arrested, and the
police try to find witnesses and build a case, hoping to get an indictment. Once again,
an indictment is often not returned because of insufficient evidence. For the cases that
actually do go ahead, the next stage is trial. Sometimes the suspect is found not guilty;
sometimes the case is dismissed. But when a conviction is secured, the process moves to
the sentencing and appeals round. At times a person found guilty of a crime will be given
a suspended sentence and probation, and at others the conviction will be overturned on
appeal. For the small fraction that remains, the final stage is jail.
If we make some reasoned assumptions about the percentages that move forward at
each stage and the costs associated with each, we arrive at some striking conclusions. If
we compile the cost of the effort that goes into securing a conviction and assign it only
to those criminals who actually end up in jail, we find that the cost of a single conviction
works out to be well over a million dollars—an absolutely staggering sum. The number
is so high, of course, because only a very small percentage of the flow of accused persons
makes it all the way through the process. Everyone knows that prisons are overcrowded,
and that many criminals end up serving shorter jail terms or no jail terms at all because
cells are in such short supply. So a terribly expensive trade-off results, violating the most
important production principles. The limiting step here should clearly be obtaining a
conviction. The construction cost of a jail cell even today is only some $80,000. This, plus
the $10-20,000 it costs to keep a person in jail for a year, is a small amount compared to
the million dollars required to secure a conviction. Not to jail a criminal in whom society
has invested over a million dollars for lack of an $80,000 jail cell clearly misuses society's
total investment in the criminal justice system. And this happens because we permit the
wrong step (the availability of jail cells) to limit the overall process.
Managing the Breakfast Factory
Indicators as a Key Tool
A hungry public has loved the breakfast you’ve been serving, and thanks to the help of
your many customers and a friendly banker, you've created a breakfast factory, which
among other things uses specialized production lines for toast, coffee, and eggs. As
manager of the factory, you have a substantial staff and a lot of automated equipment.
Let’s say that as manager of the breakfast factory, you will work with five indicators to
meet your production goals on a daily basis. Which five would they be? Put another way,
which five pieces of information would you want to look at each day, immediately upon
arriving at your office?
Here are my candidates. First, you'll want to know your sales forecast for the day. How
many breakfasts should you plan to deliver? To assess how much confidence you should
place in your forecast, you would want to know how many you delivered yesterday
compared to how many you planned on delivering—in other words, the variance
between your plan and the actual delivery of breakfasts for the preceding day.
Your next key indicator is raw material inventory. Do you have enough eggs, bread,
and coffee on hand to keep your factory running today? If you find you have too little
inventory, you can still order more. If you find you have too much, you may want to
cancel today’s egg delivery.
Another important piece of information is the condition of your equipment. If
anything broke down yesterday, you will want to get it repaired or rearrange your
production line to meet your forecast for the day.
You also must get a fix on your manpower. If two waiters are out sick, you will have
to come up with something if you are still going to meet the demand forecasted. Should
you call in temporary help? Should you take someone off the toaster line and make him
Finally, you want to have some kind of quality indicator. It is not enough to monitor
the number of breakfasts each waiter delivers, because the waiters could have been
rude to the customers even as they served a record number of breakfasts. Because your
business depends on people wanting what you sell, you must be concerned with the
public’s opinion of your service. Perhaps you should set up a “customer complaint log”
maintained by the cashier. If one of your waiters elicited more than the usual number of
complaints yesterday, you will want to speak to him first thing today.
All these indicators measure factors essential to running your factory. If you look
at them early every day, you will often be able to do something to correct a potential
problem before it becomes a real one during the course of the day.
Indicators tend to direct your attention toward what they are monitoring. It is like
riding a bicycle: you will probably steer it where you are looking. If, for example, you
start measuring your inventory levels carefully, you are likely to take action to drive your
inventory levels down, which is good up to a point. But your inventories could become
so lean that you can’t react to changes in demand without creating shortages. So because
indicators direct one’s activities, you should guard against overreacting. This you can do
by pairing indicators, so that together both effect and counter-effect are measured. Thus,
in the inventory example, you need to monitor both inventory levels and the incidence
of shortages. A rise in the latter will obviously lead you to do things to keep inventories
from becoming too low.
The principle here was evident many times in the development of a compiler.
Measuring the completion date of each software unit against its capability is one
example. Watching this pair of indicators should help us to avoid working on the
perfect compiler that will never be ready, and also to avoid rushing to finish one that
is inadequate. In sum, joint monitoring is likely to keep things in the optimum middle
Nowhere can indicators—and paired indicators—be of more help than in
administrative work. Having come to this realization, our company has been using
measurements as a key tool to improve the productivity of administrative work for
several years. The first rule is that a measurement—any measurement—is better than
none. But a genuinely effective indicator will cover the owtput of the work unit and not
simply the activity involved. Obviously, you measure a salesman by the orders he gets
(output), not by the calls he makes (activity).
The second criterion for a good indicator is that what you measure should be a
physical, countable thing. Examples of effective measures of administrative output are
shown below. Because those listed here are all quantity or output indicators, their paired
counterparts should stress the quality of work. Thus, in accounts payable, the number
of vouchers processed should be paired with the number of errors found either by
auditing or by our suppliers. For another example, the number of square feet cleaned by
acustodial group should be paired with a partially objective/partially subjective rating of
the quality of work as assessed by a senior manager with an office in that building.
ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTION WORK OUTPUT INDICATOR
Accounts payable # Vouchers processed
Custodial # Square feet cleaned
Customer service # Sales orders entered
Data entry # Transactions processed
Employment # People hired (by type of hire)
Inventory control # Items managed in inventory
Examples of administrative work output indicators.
Such indicators have many uses. First, they spell out very clearly what the objectives
of an individual or group are. Second, they provide a degree of objectivity when
measuring an administrative function. Third, and as important as any, they give us
a measure by which various administrative groups performing the same function in
different organizations can be compared with each other. The performance of a custodial
group in one major building can now be compared with that of another group in a
second building. In fact, if indicators are put in place, the competitive spirit engendered
frequently has an electrifying effect on the motivation each group brings to its work,
along with a parallel improvement in performance. More about this later when we
examine the “sports analogy.”
The Black Box
We can think of our breakfast factory as if it were a “black box”: input (the raw materials)
and the labor of waiters, helpers, and you, the manager, flowing into the box, and the
output (the breakfast) flowing out of it as illustrated below. In general, we can represent
any activity that resembles a production process in a simple fashion as a black box. Thus,
we can draw a black box to represent college recruiting, where the input is the applicants
on campus and the output is college graduates who have accepted our employment
offers. The labor is the work of our on-campus interviewers and the managers and
technical people who interview back at the plant. Similarly, the process of field sales
training can be seen as a black box with the input being the raw product specifications
and the output being trained sales personnel, The labor here is the work of the marketing
and merchandising people who turn raw information into usable sales tools and train
the field sales personnel to exploit them. In fact, we can represent most, if not all,
administrative work by our magical black box. A group whose job is to bill customers has
as its input the information about the customer—what he has purchased, the pricing
data, and the shipment records; and output is the final bill sent to the customer through
which payment is collected. The labor is the work of all personnel involved.
The breakfast factory—as a “black box."
The black box sorts out what the inputs, the output, and the labor are in the
production process. We can improve our ability to run that process by cutting some
windows in our box so that we can see some of what goes on within it. By looking through
the openings, as illustrated below, we can better understand the internal workings of any
production process and assess what the future output is likely to be.
By peering through the windows in the black box, we can get an
idea of what the future output is likely to be,
And because they give you time to take
corrective action, they make it possible for you to avoid problems. Of course, for leading
indicators to do you any good, you must believe in their validity. While this may seem
obvious, in practice, confidence is not as easy to come by as it sounds. To take big, costly,
or worrisome steps when you are not yet sure you have a problem is hard. But unless you
are prepared to act on what your leading indicators are telling you, all you will get from
monitoring them is anxiety. Thus, the indicators you choose should be credible, so that
you will, in fact, act whenever they flash warning signals.
Leading indicators might include the daily monitors we use to run our breakfast
factory, from machine downtime records to an index of customer satisfaction—both of
which can tell us if problems lie down the road. A generally applicable example of a
“window” cut into the black box is the linearity indicator. In the figure below, we provide
one for the college recruiting process. Plotted here is the number of college graduates
who have accepted our offers versus the month of the year. If all went ideally, we would
move along the straight line that would yield our hiring target for the semester by the
month of June. If by April the actual progress is as shown here, we will find ourselves far
below the ideal straight line. So from reading the indicator, we know that the only way
we can hit our target is by getting acceptance at a much higher rate in the remaining two
months than we had gotten in the preceding four. Thus, the linearity indicator flashes an
early warning, allowing us time to take corrective action Without it, we would discover
that we had missed our target in June, when nothing can be done about it.
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun
The linearity indicator can give us an early warning thet we are likely to miss our target.
If we consider a manufacturing unit in this fashion, we may assume that because it
makes monthly goals regularly, all is well. But we can cut a window into the black box
here, measure production output against time as the month proceeds, and compare that
with the ideal linear output. We may learn that output performance is spread evenly
throughout the course of the month or that it is concentrated in the last week of the
month. If the latter is the case, the manager of the unit is probably not using manpower
and equipment efficiently. And if the situation is not remedied, one minor breakdown
toward month’s end could cause the unit to miss its monthly output goal entirely.
The linearity indicator will help you anticipate such a problem and is therefore quite
Also valuable are trend indicators. These show output (breakfasts delivered, software
modules completed, vouchers processed) measured against time (performance this
month versus performance over a series of previous months), and also against some
standard or expected level. A display of trends forces you to look at the future as you
are led to extrapolate almost automatically from the past. This extrapolation gives us
another window in our black box. Also, measurement against a standard makes you
think through why the results were what they were, and not what the standard said they
Another sound way to anticipate the future is through the use of the stagger chart,
which forecasts an output over the next several months. The chart is updated monthly,
so that each month you will have an updated version of the then-current forecast
information as compared to several prior forecasts. You can readily see the variation of
one forecast from the next, which can help you anticipate future trends better than if
you used a simple trend chart.
In my experience, nowhere has the stagger chart been more productive than in
forecasting economic trends. The way it works is shown in the figure below, which
gives us forecasted rates of incoming orders for an Intel division. The stagger chart then
provides the same forecast prepared in the following month, in the month after that, and
so on. Such a chart shows not only your outlook for business month by month but also
how your outlook varied from one month to the next. This way of looking at incoming
business, of course, makes whoever does the forecasting take his task very seriously,
because he knows that his forecast for any given month will be routinely compared
with future forecasts and eventually with the actual result. But even more important,
the improvement or deterioration of the forecasted outlook from one month to the next
provides the most valuable indicator of business trends that I have ever seen. I would go
as far as to say that it's too bad that all economists and investment advisers aren't obliged
to display their forecasts in a stagger chart form. Then we could really have a way to
evaluate whatever any one of them chooses to say.
Forecasted incomnins orders for:
(* means the actual number for that month)
Ihave found the “stagger chart” the best means of getting a feel for future business trends.
Finally, indicators can be a big help in solving all types of problems. If something goes
wrong, you will have a bank of information that readily shows all the parameters of your
operation, allowing you to scan them for unhealthy departures from the norm. If you do
Controlling Future Output
There are two ways to control the output of any factory. Some industries build to order.
For example, when you go shopping for a sofa, you are going to have to wait a long time
to get what you bought, unless you buy it right off the floor. A furniture factory builds
to order. When it learns what you want, the factory looks for a hole in its manufacturing
schedule and makes the item for you. If you order a new car rather than buying one right
off the lot, the same thing happens: the plant will paint the car in the color you want and
provide the options you want, but you will have to wait for it. And our breakfast factory,
of course, builds breakfasts to order.
But if your competition in the sofa business makes the same product but has it ready
in four weeks while you need four months, you are not going to have many customers. So
even though you would much rather build to order, you will have to use another way to
control the output of your factory. In short, you will have to build to forecast, which is a
contemplation of future orders. To do this, the manufacturer sets up his activities around
a reasoned speculation that orders will materialize for specific products within a certain
An obvious disadvantage here is that the manufacturer takes an inventory risk. Since
the forecast is an assessment of future requirements, which the manufacturer commits
resources to satisfy, the factory could be in an immense amount of trouble if the orders
do not materialize or if they materialize for a product other than the one anticipated.
In either case, unwanted inventory is the result. To build to forecast, you risk capital to
respond to anticipated future demand in good order.
At Intel, we build to forecast because our customers demand that we respond to
their needs in a timely fashion, even though our manufacturing throughput times
are quite long. Our breakfast factory makes its product to customer order, but buys
from its suppliers—like the egg man—on the basis of forecasted demand. Similarly,
most companies recruit new college graduates to fill anticipated needs—rather than
recruiting only when a need develops, which would be foolish because college graduates
are turned out in a highly seasonal fashion. Computer software products, such as
compilers, are also typically developed in response to an anticipated market need rather
than to specific customer order. So “building” to forecast is a very common business
Delivering a product that was built to forecast to a customer consists of two
simultaneous processes, each with a separate time cycle. A manufacturing flow must
occur in which the raw material moves through various production steps and finally
enters the finished goods warehouse, as illustrated below. Simultaneously, a salesman
finds a prospect and sells to that prospect, who eventually places an order with the
manufacturer. Ideally, the order for the product and the product itself should arrive on
the shipping dock at the same time.
Because the art and science of forecasting is so complex, you might be tempted to
give all forecasting responsibility to a single manager who can be made accountable
for it. But this usually does not work very well. What works better is to ask both
the manufacturing and the sales departments to prepare a forecast, so that people are
responsible for performing against their own predictions.
At Intel we try to match the two parallel flows with as much precision as possible.
If there’s no match, we end up with a customer order that we can't satisfy or with
a finished product for which we have no customer. Either way we have problems.
Obviously, if the match does come off, with a forecasted order becoming a real order, the
customer’s requirements can be nicely satisfied with the factory's product delivery.
The order for the product and the product itself should arrive
at the shipping dock at the same time.
The ideal is rarely found in the real world. More often, customer orders don’t develop
in time or the customer changes his mind. As for the other flow, manufacturing
could miss deadlines, or make mistakes, or encounter unforeseen problems. Because
neither the sales flow nor the manufacturing flow is completely predictable, we should
deliberately build a reasonable amount of “slack” into the system. And inventory is the
most obvious place for it. Clearly, the more inventory we have, the more change we can
cope with and still satisfy orders. But inventory costs money to build and keep, and
therefore should be controlled carefully. Ideally, inventory should be kept at the lowest-
value stage, as we've learned before, like raw eggs kept at the breakfast factory. Also, the
lower the value, the more production flexibility we obtain for a given inventory cost.
It is a good idea to use stagger charts in both the manufacturing and sales forecasts.
As noted, they will show the trend of change from one forecast to another, as well as the
actual results. By repeatedly observing the variance of one forecast from another, you
will continually pin down the causes of inaccuracy and improve your ability to forecast
both orders and the availability of product.
Forecasting future work demands and then adjusting the output of an
“administrative factory” represents a very important way in which its productivity
can be increased. Though an old and honored way of operating “widget factories,”
the application of forecasting techniques is hardly common as a way to control
administrative work. Such work has up to now been considered qualitatively different
from work in a widget factory, and has also lacked objective performance standards
needed to size or scale the work unit.
But if we have carefully chosen indicators that characterize an administrative unit
and watch them closely, we are ready to apply the methods of factory control to
administrative work. We can use de facto standards, inferred from the trend data,
to forecast the number of people needed to accomplish various anticipated tasks. By
rigorous application of the principles of forecasting, manpower can be reassigned from
one area to another, and the headcount made to match the forecasted growth or decline
in administrative activity. Without rigor, the staffing of administrative units would
always be left at its highest level and, given Parkinson's famous law, people would find
ways to let whatever they’re doing fill the time available for its completion. There is no
question that having standards and believing in them and staffing an administrative
unit objectively using forecasted workloads will help you to maintain and enhance
As we have said, manufacturing’s charter is to deliver product at a quality level
acceptable to the customer at minimum cost. To assure that the quality of our product
will in fact be acceptable, all production flows, whether they “make” breakfasts, college
graduates, or software modules, must possess inspection points. To get acceptable
quality at the lowest cost, it is vitally important to reject defective material at a stage
where its accumulated value is at the lowest possible level. Thus, as noted, we are better
off catching a bad raw egg than a cooked one, and screening out our college applicant
before he visits Intel. In short, reject before investing further value.
In the language of production, the lowest-value-point inspection where we inspect
raw material is called incoming material inspection or receiving inspection. If we again use
a black box to represent our production process, inspections that occur at intervening
points within it are called, logically enough, in-process inspections. Finally, the last
possible point of inspection, when the product is ready to be shipped to the customer, is
called final inspection or outgoing quality inspection. The three types are depicted below.
Value of Material
The key principle is to reject the defective “material” at its lowest-value stage.
When material is rejected at incoming inspection, a couple of choices present
themselves. We can send it back to the vendor as unacceptable, or we can waive our
specifications and use the substandard material anyway. The latter would result in a
higher reject rate in our production process than if we had used thoroughly acceptable
material, but that might be less expensive than shutting down the factory altogether
until cur vendor provides better material. Such decisions can only be made properly
by a balanced group of managers, which typically consists of representatives from the
quality assurance, manufacturing, and design engineering departments. This group can
weigh all the consequences of rejecting or accepting substandard raw material.
While in most instances the decision to accept or reject defective material at a given
Inspection point is an economic one, one should never let substandard material proceed
when its defects could cause a complete failure—a reliability problem—for our customer.
Simply put, because we can never assess the consequences of an unreliable product, we
can’t make compromises when it comes to reliability. Think of a component going into
the making of a cardiac pacemaker. If some of the components don’t work upon receipt
by the manufacturer, he can replace them while the unit is still in the factory. This will
probably increase costs. But if the component fails later, after the pacemaker has been
implanted, the cost of the failure is much more than a financial one.
Inspections, of course, cost money to perform and further add to expense by
interfering with the manufacturing flow and making it more complicated. Some
material has to be recycled through steps already performed, upsetting the smoothness
with which the rest of the material moves. Accordingly, one should approach the need
to inspect recognizing that a balance exists between the desired result of the inspection,
improved quality, and minimum disturbance to the production process itself.
Let’s consider a few techniques commonly used to balance the two needs. There is a
gate-like inspection and a monitoring step. In the former, all material is held at the “gate”
until the inspection tests are completed. If the material passes, it is moved on to the
next stage in the production process; if the material fails, it will be returned to an earlier
stage, where it will be reworked or scrapped. In the latter, a sample of the material is
taken, and if it fails, a notation is made from which a failure rate is calculated. The bulk
of the material is not held as the sample is taken but continues to move through the
manufacturing process. The smoothness of the flow is maintained, but if, for example,
three successive samples fail the monitoring test, we can stop the line. What is the
trade-off here? If we hold all the material, we add to throughput time and slow down
the manufacturing process. A monitor produces no comparable slowdown but might let
some bad material escape before we can act on the monitor’s results and shut things
down, which means that we might have to reject material later at a higher-value stage.
Clearly, for the same money we can do a lot more monitoring than gate-type inspections;
if we do the former, we may well contribute more to the overall quality of the product
than if we choose less frequent gate-like inspections. The trade-off here is not obvious,
and any choice has to be made with a specific case in mind. As a rule of thumb, we
should lean toward monitoring when experience shows we are not likely to encounter
Another way to lower the cost of quality assurance is to use variable inspections.
Because quality levels vary over time, it is only common sense to vary how often we
inspect. For instance, if for weeks we don't find problems, it would seem logical to check
less often. But if problems begin to develop, we can test ever more frequently until
quality again returns to the previous high levels. The advantage here is still lower costs
and even less interference with the production flow. Yet this approach is not used very
often, even in widget manufacturing. Why not? Probably because we are creatures of
habit and keep doing things the way we always have, whether it be from week to week or
year to year.
Suitably thought through, intelligent inspection schemes can actually increase the
efficiency and productivity of any manufacturing or administrative process. Let’s take
an example very different from the making of widgets or breakfasts.
I recently read a story in a news magazine that said that the American Embassy in
London could not deal with a deluge of visa applications. Some one million Britons apply
for visas each year, of which about 98 percent are approved. The embassy employs sixty
people, who process as many as 6,000 applications a day. Most applications are received
by mail, and at any time, from 60,000 to 80,000 British passports are in the embassy’s
hands. Meanwhile, lines of one hundred or more British and other nationals stand
in front of the building, looking for an opportunity to walk their passports through.
The embassy has tried a number of ways to handle matters more efficiently, including
newspaper advertisements asking tourists to apply early and to expect a three-week
turnaround. The embassy also installed boxes where applicants could drop off their
passports and visa applications if they really needed same-day service. Even so, the lines
at the embassy remained long.
In fact, the embassy’s expediting schemes only made the problem worse, because
nothing was done to address the basic issue: to speed the processing of visas overall.
Time and money were spent to classify various kinds of applications slated for different
processing times, but this only created more logistical overhead with no effect on
If our government wants British tourists to visit the United States, our government
should not irritate these would-be visitors. And if the embassy can’t get the money to
increase its staff, a simple solution can be borrowed from basic production techniques.
We need, in short, to replace their present scheme with a quality assurance test.
For that, the bureaucratic minds at the embassy would need to accept that a 100
percent check of the visa applicants is unnecessary. Some 98 percent of those applying
are approved without any question. So if the embassy were to institute a sampling test
of visas (a quality assurance test), and a thorough one at that, the logjam of applications
could be broken without materially increasing the chance that the undesirable will enter
our country. Moreover, the embassy could select the sample to be checked according
to predetermined criteria. The visa processing could then work rather like the Internal
Revenue Service. Through the checks and audits that the IRS performs, that government
agency induces compliance among most taxpayers without having an agent look at
every single return.
Later, when we examine managerial productivity, we'll see that when a manager
digs deeply into a specific activity under his jurisdiction, he’s applying the principle of
variable inspection. If the manager examined everything his various subordinates did,
he would be meddling, which for the most part would be a waste of his time. Even worse,
his subordinates would become accustomed to not being responsible for their own work,
knowing full well that their supervisor will check everything out closely. The principle
of variable inspection applied to managerial work nicely skirts both problems, and, as we
shall see, gives us an important tool for improving managerial productivity.
The workings of our black box can furnish us with the simplest and most useful
definition of productivity. The productivity of any function occurring within it is the
output divided by the labor required to generate the output. Thus, one way to increase
productivity is to do whatever we are now doing, but faster. This could be done by
reorganizing the work area or just by working harder. Here we've not changed what work
we do, we've just instituted ways to do it faster—getting more activities per employee-
hour to go on inside the black box. Because the output of the black box is proportional to
the activity that occurs within it, we will get more output per hour.
There is a second way to improve productivity. We can change the nature of the work
performed: what we do, not how fast we do it. We want to increase the ratio of output
to activity, thereby increasing output even if the activity per employee-hour remains the
same. As the slogan has it, we want to “work smarter, not harder.”
Productivity can be increased by performing the work activities at a higher rate...
..or by increasing the leverage of the activities,
Here Id like to introduce the concept of leverage, which is the output generated by a
specific type of work activity. An activity with high leverage will generate a high level
of output; an activity with low leverage, a low level of output. For example, a waiter
able to boil two eggs and operate two toasters can deliver two breakfasts for almost the
same amount of work as one. His output per activity, and therefore his leverage, is high.
A waiter who can handle only one egg and one toaster at a time possesses lower output
and leverage. The software engineer using a programming language rather like English,
later to be translated by a compiler, can solve many problems per hour of programming.
His output and leverage are high. A software engineer using a more cumbersome
programming method of ones and zeros will require many more hours to solve the same
number of problems. His output and leverage are low. Thus, a very important way to
increase productivity is to arrange the work flow inside our black box so that it will be
characterized by high output per activity, which is to say high-leverage activities.
Automation is certainly one way to improve the leverage of all types of work.
Having machines to help them, human beings can create more output. But in both
widget manufacturing and administrative work, something else can also increase the
productivity of the black box. This is called work simplification. To get leverage this way,
you first need to create a flow chart of the production process as it exists. Every single
step must be shown on it; no step should be omitted in order to pretty things up on
paper. Second, count the number of steps in the flow chart so that you know how many
you started with. Third, set a rough target for reduction of the number of steps. In the
first round of work simplification, our experience shows that you can reasonably expect
a 30 to 50 percent reduction.
To implement the actual simplification, you must question why each step is
performed. Typically, you will find that many steps exist in your work flow for no good
reason. Often they are there by tradition or because formal procedure ordains it, and
nothing practical requires their inclusion. Remember, the “visa factory” at our embassy
in Britain didn’t really have to process 100 percent of the applicants. So no matter
what reason may be given for a step, you must critically question each and throw out
those that common sense says you can do without. We found that in a wide range
of administrative activities at Intel, substantial reduction—about 30 percent—could be
achieved in the number of steps required to perform various tasks.
Of course, the principle of work simplification is hardly new in the widget
manufacturing arts. In fact, this is one of the things industrial engineers have been
doing for a hundred years. But the application of the principle to improve the
productivity of the “soft professions”—the administrative, professional, and managerial
workplace—is new and slow to take hold. The major problem to be overcome is defining
what the output of such work is or should be. As we will see, in the work of the soft
professions, it becomes very difficult to distinguish between output and activity. Andas