as Judge and Jury
Why are performance reviews a part of the
management system of most organizations? And why
do we review the performance of our subordinates? I
posed both questions to a group of middle managers
and got the following responses:
to assess the subordinate’s work
to improve performance to motivate
to provide feedback to a subordinate
to justify raises
to reward performance
to provide discipline
to provide work direction
to reinforce the company culture
Next, I asked the group to imagine themselves to be
a supervisor giving a review to a subordinate, and
asked them what their feelings were. Some of the
Finally, I asked the same group to think back to
some of the performance reviews they had received
and asked what, if anything, was wrong with them.
Their answers were quick and many:
review comments too general
mixed messages (inconsistent with rating or
no indication of how to improve
supervisor didn’t know my work
only recent performance considered
This should tell you that giving performance reviews
is a very complicated and difficult business and that
we, managers, don’t do an especially good job at it.
The fact is that giving such reviews is the single
most important form of task-relevant feedback we as
supervisors can provide. It is how we assess our
subordinates’ level of performance and how we deliver
that assessment to them individually. It is also how we
allocate the rewards—promotions, dollars, stock
options, or whatever we may use. As we saw earlier,
the review will influence a subordinate’s performance
—positively or negatively—for a long time, which
makes the appraisal one of the manager’s highest-
leverage activities. In short, the review is an extremely
powerful mechanism, and it is little wonder that
opinions and feelings about it are strong and diverse.
But what is its fundamental purpose? Though all of
the responses given to my questions are correct, there
is one that is more important than any of the others: it
is to improve the subordinate’s performance. The
review is usually dedicated to two things: first, the skill
level of the subordinate, to determine what skills are
missing and to find ways to remedy that lack; and
second, to intensify the subordinate’s motivation in
order to get him on a higher performance curve for the
same skill level (see the illustration on this page).
The review process also represents the most formal
type of institutionalized leadership. It is the only time
a manager is mandated to act as judge and jury: we
managers are required by the organization that
employs us to make a judgment regarding a fellow
worker and then to deliver that judgment to him, face
A supervisor’s responsibility here is obviously very
significant. What preparation have we had to do the
job properly? About the only thing I can think of is
that as subordinates we’ve been on the receiving end.
But in general our society values avoiding
confrontation. Even the word “argument” is frowned
upon, something I learned many years ago when I first
came to this country from Hungary. In Hungarian, the
word “argument” is frequently used to describe a
difference of opinion. When I began to learn English
and used the word “argument,” I would be corrected,
as people would say, “Oh no, you don’t mean
‘argument, you mean ‘debate,’” or “you mean
‘discussion.’” Among friends and peers you are not
supposed to discuss politics, religion, or anything that
might possibly produce a difference of opinion and a
conflict. Football scores, gardening, and the weather
are okay. We are taught that the well-mannered skirt
potentially emotional issues. The point is, delivering a
good performance review is really a unique act given
both our cultural background and our professional
Don’t think for a moment that performance reviews
should be confined to large organizations. They should
be part of managerial practice in organizations of any
size and kind, from the insurance agent with two office
assistants to administrators in education, government,
and nonprofit organizations. The long and short of it:
if performance matters in your operation, performance
reviews are absolutely necessary.
Two aspects of the review—assessing performance
and delivering the assessment—are equally difficult.
Let’s look at each in a little more detail.
Determining the performance of professional
employees in a strictly objective manner is very
difficult because there is obviously no cut-and-dried
way to measure and characterize a_ professional
employee’s work completely. Most jobs involve
activities that are not reflected by output in the time
period covered by the review. Yet we have to give such
activities appropriate weight as we assess a person’s
performance, even though we know we won't
necessarily be objective, since only output can be
measured with true objectivity. Anybody who
supervises professionals, therefore, walks a tightrope:
he needs to be objective, but must not be afraid of
using his judgment, even though judgment is by
To make an assessment less difficult, a supervisor
should clarify in his own mind in advance what it is
that he expects from a subordinate and then attempt
to judge whether he performed to expectations. The
biggest problem with most reviews is that we don’t
usually define what it is we want from our
subordinates, and, as noted earlier, if we don’t know
what we want, we are surely not going to get it.
Let’s think back to our concept of the managerial
“black box.” Using it, we can characterize performance
by output measures and internal measures. The first
represent the output of the black box, and include such
things as completing designs, meeting sales quotas, or
increasing the yield in a production process—things we
can and should plot on charts. The internal measures
take into account activities that go on inside the black
box: whatever is being done to create output for the
period under review and also that which sets the stage
for the output of future periods. Are we reaching our
current production goals in such a way that two
months from now we are likely to face a group of
disgruntled production employees? Are we positioning
and developing people in the organization in such a
way that our business can handle its tasks in the
future? Are we doing all of the things that add up to a
well-run department? There is no strict formula by
which we can compare the relative significance of
output measures and internal measures. In a given
situation, the proper weighting could be 50/50, 90/10,
or 10/90 and could even shift from one month to the
next. But at least we should know which two variables
are being traded off against each other.
A similar kind of trade-off also has to be considered
here: weighing long-term-oriented against short-term-
oriented performance. An engineer working on the
design of a product needs to complete the project on a
strict schedule to generate revenue. He may also be
working on a design method that will make it easier for
others to design similar products in the future. The
measured with true objectivity. Anybody who
supervises professionals, therefore, walks a tightrope:
he needs to be objective, but must not be afraid of
using his judgment, even though judgment is by
To make an assessment less difficult, a supervisor
should clarify in his own mind in advance what it is
that he expects from a subordinate and then attempt
to judge whether he performed to expectations. The
biggest problem with most reviews is that we don’t
usually define what it is we want from our
subordinates, and, as noted earlier, if we don’t know
what we want, we are surely not going to get it.
Let’s think back to our concept of the managerial
“black box.” Using it, we can characterize performance
by output measures and internal measures. The first
represent the output of the black box, and include such
things as completing designs, meeting sales quotas, or
increasing the yield in a production process—things we
can and should plot on charts. The internal measures
take into account activities that go on inside the black
box: whatever is being done to create output for the
period under review and also that which sets the stage
for the output of future periods. Are we reaching our
current production goals in such a way that two
months from now we are likely to face a group of
disgruntled production employees? Are we positioning
and developing people in the organization in such a
way that our business can handle its tasks in the
future? Are we doing all of the things that add up to a
well-run department? There is no strict formula by
which we can compare the relative significance of
output measures and internal measures. In a given
situation, the proper weighting could be 50/50, 90/10,
or 10/90 and could even shift from one month to the
next. But at least we should know which two variables
are being traded off against each other.
A similar kind of trade-off also has to be considered
here: weighing long-term-oriented against short-term-
oriented performance. An engineer working on the
design of a product needs to complete the project on a
strict schedule to generate revenue. He may also be
working on a design method that will make it easier for
others to design similar products in the future. The
engineer obviously needs both activities evaluated and
reviewed. Which is more significant? A way to help
weigh questions like this is the idea of “present value”
used in finance: how much will the future-oriented
activity pay back over time? And how much is that
There is also a time factor to consider. The
subordinate’s output during the review period may
have all, some, or nothing to do with his activities
during the same period. Accordingly, the supervisor
should look at the time offset between the activity of
the subordinate and the output that results from that
activity. Let me explain what I mean, because this is
one lesson I learned the hard way. The organization of
one of the managers reporting to me had had a superb
year. All output measures were excellent, sales
increased, profit margins were good, the products
worked—you could hardly even think of giving
anything but a superior review to the person in charge.
Yet I had some misgivings. Turnover in his group was
higher than it should have been, and his people were
grumbling too much. There were other such straws in
the wind, but who could give credence to elusive signs
when tangible, measurable performance was so
outstanding? So the manager got a very positive
The next year his organization took a nose dive.
Sales growth disappeared, profitability declined,
product development was delayed, and the turmoil
among his subordinates deepened. As I prepared the
next review of this manager, I struggled to sort out
what had happened. Did the manager’s performance
deteriorate as suddenly as his organization’s output
measures indicated? What was going on? I concluded
that in fact the manager’s performance was improving
in the second year, even as things seemed to go to hell.
The problem was that his performance had not been
good a year earlier. The output indicators merely
represented work done years ago—the light from
distant stars, as it were—which was still holding up.
The time offset between the manager’s work and the
output of his organization was just about a year.
Greatly embarrassed, I regretfully concluded that the
superior rating I had given him was totally wrong.
Trusting the internal measures, I should have had the
judgment and courage to give the manager a much
lower rating than I did in spite of the excellent output
indicators that did not reflect the year under review.
The time offset between activity and output can also
work the other way around. In the early years of Intel,
I was called upon to review the performance of a
subordinate who was setting up a production facility
from scratch. It had not manufactured anything as yet,
but of course the review could not wait for tangible
output. I had had no prior experience supervising
someone who did not have a record of concrete output.
Here I gave my subordinate credit for doing well, even
though output remained uncertain. As managers, we
are really called upon to judge performance, not just to
see and record it when it’s in plain sight.
Finally, as you review a manager, should you be
judging his performance or the performance of the
group under his supervision? You should be doing
both. Ultimately what you are after is the performance
of the group, but the manager is there to add value in
some way. You need to determine what that is. You
must ask: Is he doing anything with his group? Is he
hiring new people? Is he training the people he has,
and doing other things that are likely to improve the
output of the team in the future? The most difficult
issues in determining a professional’s performance
will be based on asking questions and making
judgments of this sort.
One big pitfall to be avoided is the “potential trap.”
At all times you should force yourself to assess
performance, not potential. By “potential” I mean form
rather than substance. I was once asked to approve the
performance review of a general manager whose
supervisor rated him highly for the year. The manager
was responsible for a business unit that lost money,
missed its revenue forecast month after month,
slipped engineering schedules, and in general showed
poor output and internal measures over the year.
Accordingly, I could not approve the review.
Whereupon his supervisor said, “But he is an
outstanding general manager. He is knowledgeable
and handles himself well. It’s his organization that did
not do well, not the manager himself!” This cut no ice
with me because the performance rating of a
manager cannot be higher than the one we would
accord to his organization! It is very important to
assess actual performance, not appearances; real
output, not good form. Had the manager been given a
high rating, Intel would have signaled to all at the
company that to do well, you must “act” like a good
manager, talk like one, and emulate one—but you
don’t need to perform like one.
A decision to promote is often linked, as it should
be, to the performance review. We must recognize that
no action communicates a manager’s values to an
organization more clearly and loudly than his choice of
whom he promotes. By elevating someone, we are, in
effect, creating role models for others in our
organization. The old saying has it that when we
promote our best salesman and make him a manager,
we ruin a good salesman and get a bad manager. But if
we think about it, we see we have no choice but to
promote the good salesman. Should our worst
salesman get the job? When we promote our best, we
are saying to our subordinates that performance is
It is hard enough for us to assess our subordinates’
performance, but we must also try to improve it. No
matter how well a subordinate has done his job, we
can always find ways to suggest improvement,
something about which a manager need not feel
embarrassed. Blessed with 20/20 hindsight, we can
compare what the subordinate did against what he
might have done, and the variance can tell both of us
how to do things better in the future.
Delivering the Assessment
There are three L’s to keep in mind when delivering a
review: Level, listen, and leave yourself out.
You must level with your _ subordinate—the
credibility and integrity of the entire system depend on
your being totally frank. And don’t be surprised to find
that praising someone in a straightforward fashion can
be just as hard as criticizing him without
The word “listen” has special meaning here. The aim
of communication is to transmit thoughts from the
brain of person A to the brain of person B. Thoughts in
the head of A are first converted into words, which are
enunciated and via sound waves reach the ear of B; as
nerve impulses they travel to his brain, where they are
transformed back into thoughts and presumably kept.
Should person A use a tape recorder to confirm the
words used in the review? The answer is an emphatic
no. Words themselves are nothing but a means;
getting the right thought communicated is the end.
Perhaps B has become so emotional that he can’t
understand something that would be perfectly clear to
anyone else. Perhaps B has become so preoccupied
trying to formulate answers that he can’t really listen
and get A’s message. Perhaps B has tuned out and as a
defense is thinking of going fishing. All of these
possibilities can and do occur, and all the more so
when A’s message is laden with conflict.
How then can you be sure you are being truly heard?
What techniques can you employ? Is it enough to have
your subordinate paraphrase your words? I don’t think
so. What you must do is employ all of your sensory
capabilities. To make sure you're being heard, you
should watch the person you are talking to.
Remember, the more complex the issue, the more
prone communication is to being lost. Does your
subordinate give appropriate responses to what you
are saying? Does he allow himself to receive your
message? If his responses—verbal and nonverbal—do
not completely assure you that what you’ve said has
gotten through, it is your responsibility to keep at it
until you are satisfied that you have been heard and
This is what I mean by listening: employing your
entire arsenal of sensory capabilities to make certain
your points are being properly interpreted by your
subordinate’s brain. All the intelligence and good faith
used to prepare your review will produce nothing
unless this occurs. Your tool, to say it again, is total
Every good classroom teacher works in the same
way. He knows when what he is saying is being
understood by his students. If it isn’t, he takes heed
and explains things again or explains things in a
different way. All of us have had professors who
lectured by looking at the blackboard, mumbling to it,
and carefully avoiding direct eye contact with the class.
The reason: knowing that their presentation was
murky and incomprehensible, these teachers looked
away from their audience to avoid confirming visually
what they already knew. So don’t imitate your worst
professors while delivering performance reviews.
Listen with all your might to make sure your
subordinate is receiving your message, and don’t stop
delivering it until you are satisfied that he is.
The third L is “leave yourself out.” It is very
important for you to understand that the performance
review is about and for your subordinate. So your own
insecurities, anxieties, guilt, or whatever should be
kept out of it. At issue are the subordinate’s problems,
not the supervisor’s, and it is the subordinate’s day in
court. Anyone called upon to assess the performance
of another person is likely to have strong emotions
before and during the review, just as actors have stage
fright. You should work to control these emotions so
that they don’t affect your task, though they will well
up no matter how many reviews you've given.
Let us now consider three types of performance
“On the One Hand...On the Other Hand...”
Most reviews probably fall into this category,
containing both positive and negative assessments.
Common problems here include superficiality, clichés,
and laundry lists of unrelated observations. All of
these will leave your subordinate bewildered and will
hardly improve his future performance, the review’s
basic purpose. Let me suggest some ways to help you
deliver this type of review.
The key is to recognize that your subordinate, like
most people, has only a finite capacity to deal with
facts, issues, and suggestions. You may possess seven
truths about his performance, but if his capacity is
only four, at best you'll waste your breath on the other
three. At worst you will have left him with a case of
sensory overload, and he will go away without getting
anything out of the review. The fact is that a person
can only absorb so many messages at one time,
especially when they deal with his own performance.
The purpose of the review is not to cleanse your
system of all the truths you may have observed about
your subordinate, but to improve his performance. So
here less may very well be more.
How can you target a few key areas? First, consider
as many aspects of your subordinate’s performance as
possible. You should scan material such as progress
reports, performance against quarterly objectives, and
one-on-one meeting notes. Then sit down with a blank
piece of paper. As you consider your subordinate’s
performance, write everything down on the paper. Do
not edit in your head. Get everything down, knowing
that doing so doesn’t commit you to do anything.
Things major, minor, and trivial can be included in no
particular order. When you have run out of items, you
can put all of your supporting documentation away.
Now, from your worksheet, look for relationships
between the various items listed. You will probably
begin to notice that certain items are different
manifestations of the same phenomenon, and that
there may be some indications why a certain strength
or weakness exists. When you find such relationships,
you can start calling them “messages” for the
subordinate. At this point, your worksheet might look
something like that shown on the next page. Now,
again from your worksheet, begin to draw conclusions
and specific examples to support them. Once your list
of messages has been compiled, ask yourself if your
subordinate will be able to remember all of the
messages you have chosen to deliver. If not, you must
delete the less important ones. Remember, what you
couldn’t include in this review, you can probably take
up in the next one.
— spec process:
— poor kick-off
for spec training
ae on cotter
— snf liste\tofpeers
1. Good results on planning system
(analytical/financial background useful)
2. Hard time setting clear, crisp goals—satisfied
with activities instead of driving results!
Com -r knowdedge
(No-let’s just concentrate on #2!)
Worksheet for performance review.
Let’s talk about surprises. If you have discharged
responsibilities | adequately
throughout the year, holding regular one-on-one
meetings and providing guidance when needed, there
should never be any surprises at a performance review,
right? Wrong. When you are using the worksheet,
sometimes you come up with a message that will
startle you. So what do you do? You're faced with
either delivering the message or not, but if the purpose
of the review is to improve your subordinate’s
performance, you must deliver it. Preferably, a review
should not contain any surprises, but if you uncover
one, swallow hard and bring it up.
On this page you'll find an “on the one hand, on the
other hand” kind of performance review. It was written
to correspond to the worksheet shown opposite. I have
annotated it to call attention to some of the things we
discussed in this chapter.
With a little soul-searching, you may come to realize
that you have a major performance problem on your
hands. You have a subordinate who, unless turned
around, could get fired. To deal with the problem, you
and your subordinate will likely go through stages
commonly experienced in problem-solving of all kinds
and particularly in conflict resolution. These are
shown on this page. You'll find these occurring
definitely during and possibly after the “blast” review,
which is basically an exercise of resolving conflict
about a big performance problem.
A poor performer has a strong tendency to ignore
his problem. Here a manager needs facts and
examples so that he can demonstrate its reality.
Progress of some sort is made when the subordinate
actively denies the existence of a problem rather than
ignoring it passively, as before. Evidence can overcome
resistance here as well, and we enter the third stage,
when the subordinate admits that there is a problem,
but maintains it is not his problem. Instead he will
blame others, a standard defense mechanism. Using
this defense, he can continue to avoid the
responsibility and burden of remedying the situation.
These three steps usually follow one another in fairly
rapid succession. But things tend to get stuck at the
blame-others stage. If your subordinate does have a
problem, there’s no way of resolving it if he continues
to blame it on others. He has to take the biggest step:
namely assuming responsibility. He has to say not
only that there is a problem but that it is his problem.
This is fateful, because it means work: “If it is my
problem, I have to do something about it. If I have to
do something, it is likely to be unpleasant and will
definitely mean a lot of work on my part.” Once
responsibility has been assumed, however, finding the
solution is relatively easy. This is because the move
from blaming others to assuming responsibility
constitutes an emotional step, while the move from
assuming responsibility to finding the solution is an
intellectual one, and the latter is easier.
The stages of problem-solving: The
transition from blaming others to
assuming responsibility is an
It is the reviewer’s job to get the subordinate to
move through all of the stages to that of assuming
responsibility, though finding the solution should be a
shared task. The supervisor should keep track of what
stage things are in. If the supervisor wants to go on to
find the solution when the subordinate is still denying
or blaming others, nothing can happen. Knowing
where you are will help you both move through the
In the end, there are three possible outcomes. One,
the subordinate accepts your assessment and your
recommended cure, and commits himself to take it.
Two, he may disagree completely with your
assessment but still accepts your cure. Three, the
subordinate disagrees with your assessment and does
not commit himself to do what you’ve recommended.
As the supervisor, which of these three should you
consider acceptable resolutions to the problem?
I feel very strongly that any outcome that includes a
commitment to action is acceptable. Complex issues
do not lend themselves easily to universal agreement.
If your subordinate says he’s committed to change
things, you have to assume he’s sincere. The key word
here is acceptable. It is certainly more desirable for
you and your subordinate to agree about the problem
and the solution, because that will make you feel that
he will enthusiastically work toward remedying it. So
up to a point you should try to get your subordinate to
agree with you. But if you can’t, accept his
commitment to change and go on. Don’t confuse
emotional comfort with operational need. To make
things work, people do not need to side with you; you
only need them to commit themselves to pursue a
course of action that has been decided upon. There
seems to be something not quite nice about expecting
a person to walk down a path he’d rather not be on.
But on the job we are after a person’s performance, not
our psychological comfort.
I learned the distinction between the two during one
of the first reviews I had to give. I was trying very hard
to persuade my subordinate to see things my way. He
simply would not go along with me and finally said to
me, “Andy, you will never convince me, but why do
you insist on wanting to convince me? I’ve already said
I will do what you say.” I shut up, embarrassed, not
knowing why. It took me a long time before I realized I
was embarrassed because my insistence had a lot to do
with making me feel better and little to do with the
running of the business.
If it becomes clear that you are not going to get your
subordinate past the blame-others stage, you will have
to assume the formal role of the supervisor, endowed
with position power, and say, “This is what I, as your
boss, am instructing you to do. I understand that you
do not see it my way. You may be right or I may be
right. But I am not only empowered, I am required by
the organization for which we both work to give you
instructions, and this is what I want you to do...” And
proceed to secure your subordinate’s commitment to
the course of action you want and thereafter monitor
his performance against that commitment.
Recently one of my subordinates wrote a review that
I considered superficial, lacking analysis and depth.
My subordinate, after some discussion, agreed with
my assessment, but he considered the issue not
important enough, as he put it, to spend time rewriting
the review. After more spirited discussion, we
remained deadlocked. Finally, I took a deep breath
and said to him, “Look, I understand that you don’t
consider it worth your time to do it. But I want you to
do it.” I added that “I guess there is a basic difference
between us. The integrity of the performance review
system is just more important to me than it is to you.
That is why I have to insist.” He looked back at me and
after a moment simply said, “Okay.” He thought I was
out in left field and resented the fact that I made him
spend time on _ something he thought was
unimportant, but he committed himself to redo the
review, and, in fact, he did it well. His subordinate
ended up getting the reworked, much more thorough
and thoughtful review, and the fact that his review was
rewritten without the agreement of my subordinate
made no difference to him.
Reviewing the Ace
After trying to establish the principles of performance
appraisal with a group of about twenty middle
managers, I asked them to take a review they had once
received and to analyze it according to our new
criteria. The results were not what I expected, but I did
learn from them.
This group consisted of achievers, and their ratings
were mostly very high. The reviews were exceptionally
well written, much better than the average at Intel.
However, for content, they tended to be retrospective
assessments, analyses of what the subordinate had
done in the course of the prior year. Even though their
key purpose was to improve the subordinate’s future
performance, a majority of the reviews made little or
no attempt to define what the subordinate needed to
do to improve his performance or even to maintain his
current level. It seems that for an achiever the
supervisor’s effort goes into determining and justifying
the judgment of the superior performance, while
giving little attention to how he could do even better.
But for a poor performer, the supervisor tends to
concentrate heavily on ways he can improve
performance, providing detailed and_ elaborate
“corrective action programs,” step-by-step affairs
meant to ensure that the marginal employee can pull
himself up to meet minimum requirements.
I think we have our priorities reversed. Shouldn’t we
spend more time trying to improve the performance of
our stars? After all, these people account for a
disproportionately large share of the work in any
organization. Put another way, concentrating on the
stars is a high-leverage activity: if they get better, the
impact on group output is very great indeed.
We all have a hard time saying things that are
critical, whether we’re talking to a superior employee
or a marginal one. We must keep in mind, however,
that no matter how stellar a person’s performance
level is, there is always room for improvement. Don’t
hesitate to use the 20/20 hindsight provided by the
review to show anyone, even an ace, how he might
have done better.
Other Thoughts and Practices
Is it a good idea to ask the subordinate to prepare
some kind of a self-review before being reviewed by
his supervisor? Let me answer the question this way.
Your own review is obviously important to you, and
you really want to know how your supervisor sees your
year’s work. If you prepare a review and give it to your
supervisor, and he simply changes the format, retypes
it, gives you a superior rating, and then hands it back
to you, how will you feel? Probably cheated. If you
have to tell your’ supervisor about your
accomplishments, he obviously doesn’t pay much
attention to what you are doing. Reviewing the
performance of subordinates is a formal act of
leadership. If supervisors permit themselves to be
prompted in one way or another, their leadership and
their capacity for it will begin to appear false. So the
integrity of the supervisors’ judgment here must be
preserved at all costs, and they must commit
themselves through an up-front judgment of their
subordinates’ performance if the health and vitality of
the review process are to be maintained.
What about asking your subordinate to evaluate
your performance as his supervisor? I think this might
be a good idea. But you should make it clear to your
subordinate that it’s your job to assess his
performance, while his assessment of you has only
advisory status. The point is, he is not your leader; you
are his. And under no circumstances should you
pretend that you and your subordinates are equal
during performance reviews.
Should you deliver the written review before,
during, or after the face-to-face discussion? I have
tried it all three ways. Let’s consider some of the pros
and cons of each. What happens if you have the review
first and then give your subordinate what you’ve
written later? Upon reading it, the subordinate may
find a phrase that he didn’t “hear” earlier and blow up
over it. What about delivering the written review
during the discussion? One manager told me that he
gives the subordinate a copy of the review and tells
him to read the first several paragraphs, which they
then discuss. Grouping the paragraphs, supervisor and
subordinate work their way through the appraisal. I
can see a problem with this. How can a supervisor ask
a subordinate to stop at paragraph three when he is so
eager to read the rest of what he’s got? Another
manager told me that he reads the written review to
his subordinate to try to control the session. But here,
too, the subordinate is left eager to know what comes
next and might not pay attention to what is really
being said. Also, when your subordinate is given a
written review during the discussion, he won’t have
the time to think about what it says and is likely to
walk away muttering to himself, “I should have said
this in response, and I should have said that.” For a
good meeting of minds, your subordinate should have
time to work out his reactions to what’s in the review.
In my experience, the best thing to do is to give your
subordinate the written review sometime before the
face-to-face discussion. He can then read the whole
thing privately and digest it. He can react or overreact
and then look at the “messages” again. By the time the
two of you get together, he will be much more
prepared, both emotionally and rationally.
Preparing and delivering a performance assessment
is one of the hardest tasks you'll have to perform as a
manager. The best way to learn how to do one is to
think critically about the reviews you yourself have
received. And if you’ve been lucky, the tradition of
good performance reviews has been handed from
supervisor to subordinate, which has helped to
maintain the integrity of the system in your company.
Nevertheless, people constantly need to be prodded
into doing a good job of reviewing. Each year I read
something like a hundred evaluations, all of those
written by my own subordinates and a random
selection from throughout Intel. I comment on them
and send them back for rewrites or with a
complimentary note. I do this with as much noise and
visibility as I can, because I want to reiterate and
reaffirm the significance the system has and should
have for every Intel employee. Anything less would not
be appropriate for the most important kind of task-
relevant feedback we can give our subordinates.
EXEMPT PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL
NAME_John Doe JOB TITLE. Materials Support Supervisor _
REVIEW PERIOD_____2/82_TO_ 8/82
DESCRIPTION OF JOB ASSIGNMENT:
Responsible for managing the production planning process and
the manufacturing specifications process, including maintenance
ACCOMPLISHMENTS DURING THIS REVIEW
The production planning process was significantly changed this
year. Sites were well coordinated, and all the administrative activ-
ities were efficiently done.
EVALUATION: (AREAS OF STRENGTHS, AREAS FOR
Jehn transferred to Materials Support in early February. The pro-
duction planning process was in some difficulties at the time he
joined the group. John got up to speed very quickly and was able
to take over the job from his predecessor very effectively.
In the manufacturing specifications area, John’s efforts have been
far less successful to date. John puts effort into these areas, but the
results have not been satisfactory, I think that the problem has
—John has a hard time defining clear, concise, and specific goals.
A clear example of this is his difficulty setting good objectives
and key results. Another example is the mushy conclusion of the
manufacturing specification system review in March. We still
don’t have a clear definitive statement of where the spec system
is heading and how it is going to get there. Without specific
goals, one can very easily fall into the trap of “working on”
things without reaching the objectives—which leads to the
—I feel that John is easily satisfied that having a meeting on a
subject constitutes progress. This happened, for example, in the
area of training associated with manufacturing specs. John
should spend more effort prior to each meeting and define what
specific results he wants to accomplish with it.
John’s prior finance background has really helped in a variety of
Compliments need | _ work areas. For example, John voluntarily helped the Purchasing
examples, too! group sort out some of their finance problems—an effort over and
above the call of duty.
John would like to be promoted to the next management level.
This will not happen at this time, but I am satisfied that his capa-
bilities will allow him to eventually be promoted. Before that
happens, however, John has to be able to take complex projects,
like the manufacturing spec system. and show results. This will
require clear and concise breakdown of problems, identification of
goals, and establishment of the way to achieve those goals. John,
mprove performanc for the most part, will have to achieve this on his own. While | will
. help when needed, John has to be the primary driver. Only when
he shows that he is capable of independent work along these lines
can he be promoted.
In summary, John is capable of doing his current job. I also realize
the difficulty John has had in changing from the finance environ-
ment to a manufacturing environment. I will continue to try to
help him—particularly in the areas of goal setting and defining
ways of accomplishing his tasks. John’s performance in Materials
Support is rated as “meets requirements”—a rating he should defi-
nitely be able to improve.
RATING: DOES NOT C1MEETS
Teo laels of IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR: DATE: 8/10/82
management plus APPROVING SUPERVISOR: ____DATE:_8/15/82
personnel required, }| |MATRIX MANAGER: _ DATE: 8/10/82_
“for checks and ERSONNEL INISTRATOR: jane DATE:_8/18/82
balances EMPLOYEE: _____ DATE; 8/22/82
Note: Review was prepared jointly Employee signature shows that he
with head of the Material has been given the review; does
Manager's Council: an example not necessarily mean he agrees
of dual reporting with it
Two Difficult Tasks
There are two other emotionally charged tasks a
manager must perform. They are interviewing a
potential employee and trying to talk a valued
employee out of quitting.
The purpose of the interview is to:
¢ select a good performer
* educate him as to who you and the company are
¢ determine if a mutual match exists