What Is a Manager’s Output?
Iasked a group of middle managers just that question.
I got these responses:
judgments and opinions
allocation of resources
personnel trained and subordinates developed
Do these things really constitute the output of a manager? I don’t think so. They are
instead activities, or descriptions of what managers do as they try to create a final result,
or output. What, then, is a manager’s output? At Intel, if she is in charge of a wafer
fabrication plant, her output consists of completed, high-quality, fully processed silicon
wafers. If he supervises a design group, his output consists of completed designs that
work correctly and are ready to go into manufacturing. If a manager is the principal
of a high school, her output will be trained and educated students who have either
completed their schooling or are ready to move on to the next year of their studies. If a
manager is a surgeon, his output is a fully recovered, healed patient. We can sum matters
up with the proposition that:
Why? Because business and education and even surgery represent work done by teams.
by his subordinates and associates. If the manager is a knowledge specialist, a know-how
manager, his potential for influencing “neighboring” organizations is enormous. The
internal consultant who supplies needed insight to a group struggling with a problem
will affect the work and the output of the entire group. Similarly, if a lawyer acquires
a regulatory permit for a drug company, he will release the flow of the result of many
years of research at that company to the public. Or a marketing analyst who reviews
mountains of product, market, and competitive information, analyzes market research,
and makes fact-finding visits can directly affect the output of many “neighboring”
organizations. His interpretations of the data and his recommendations will perhaps
guide the activities for the whole company. Thus, the definition of “manager” should
be broadened: individual contributors who gather and disseminate know-how and.
information should also be seen as middle managers, because they exert great power
within the organization.
But the key definition here is that the output of a manager is a result achieved by a
group either under her supervision or under her influence. While the manager’s own
work is clearly very important, that in itself does not create output. Her organization
does. By analogy, a coach or a quarterback alone does not score touchdowns and win
games. Entire teams with their participation and guidance and direction do. League
standings are kept by team, not by individual. Business—and this means not just the
business of commerce but the business of education, the business of government, the
business of medicine—is a team activity. And, always, it takes a team to win.
It is important to understand that a manager will find himself engaging in an array
of activities in order to affect output. As the middle managers I queried said, a manager
must form opinions and make judgments, he must provide direction, he must allocate
resources, he must detect mistakes, and so on. All these are necessary to achieve output.
But output and activity are by no means the same thing.
Consider my own managerial role. As president of a company, I can affect output
through my direct subordinates—group general managers and others like them—by
performing supervisory activities. I can also influence groups not under my direct
supervision by making observations and suggestions to those who manage them. Both
types of activity will, I hope, contribute to my output as a manager by contributing to
the output of the company as a whole. I was once asked by a middle manager at Intel
how I could teach in-plant courses, visit manufacturing plants, concern myself with the
problems of people several levels removed from me in the organization, and still have
time to do my job. I asked him what he thought my job was. He thought for a moment,
and then answered his own question, “I guess those things are your job too, aren’t they?”
They are absolutely my job—not my entire job, but part of it, because they help add to the
output of Intel.
Let me give another example. Cindy, an engineer at Intel, supervises an engineering
group in a wafer fabrication plant. She also spends some of her time as a member of an
advisory body that establishes standard procedures by which all the plants throughout
the company perform a certain technical process. In both roles, Cindy contributes to the
output of the wafer fabrication plants. As a supervising engineer, she performs activities
that increase the output of the plant in which she works; as a member of the advisory
body, she provides specialized knowledge that will influence and increase the output of
“neighboring organizations”—all the other Intel wafer fabrication plants.
Let’s refer again to our black box. If the machinery within an organization can be
compared to a series of gears, we can visualize how a middle manager affects output. In
times of crisis, he provides power to the organization. When things aren’t working as
smoothly as they should, he applies a bit of oil. And, of course, he provides intelligence to
the machine to direct its purpose.
“Daddy, What Do You Really Da?”
Most of us have had to struggle to answer that question. What we actually do is difficult
to pin down and sum up. Much of it often seems so inconsequential that our position in
the business hardly seems justified. Part of the problem here stems from the distinction
between our activities, which is what we actually do, and our output, which is what
we achieve. The latter seems important, significant, and worthwhile. The former often
seems trivial, insignificant, and messy. But a surgeon whose output is a cured patient
spends his time scrubbing and cutting and suturing, and this hardly sounds very
To find out what we managers really do, let’s take a look at one of my busier days,
shown in the table below. Here I describe the activity in which I was engaged, explain it a
bit, and categorize it into types we shall examine in the balance of the chapter.
Time and Activity
Met with a manager
who had submitted his
resignation to leave for
Incoming telephone call
from a competitor.
Read mail from the
A Day from My Life
(Type of Activity)
I listened to his reasons (information-gathering),
felt he could be turned around and saved for Intel.
Encouraged him to talk to certain other managers
about a career change (nudge), and decided to
pursue this matter with them myself (decision-
Call was ostensibly about a meeting of an industry-
wide society, but in reality he was feeling out
how I saw business conditions. I did the same.
I scribbled messages on about half of it, some
of which were expressions of encouragement or
disapproval, others exhortations to take certain
types of action (nudges). One was the denial
of a request to proceed with a particular small
project (decision-making). (Of course, information-
gathering took place in all of these cases, too.)
Meeting (a regular
of the company’s
Subjects covered at this
—Review of the prior (nformation-gathering)
month’s incoming order
and shipment rates.
—Discussion to set (Decision-making)
priorities for the
—Review of the status This came about through a prior decision that this
of a major marketing program was faltering and required review. We
program (scheduled found it was doing a little bit better than before
subject). (information-gathering), but the presentation still
elicited a lot of comments and suggestions (nudges)
from various members of the audience.
program to reduce the
time of a particular
product line (scheduled
Lunch in the company
Meeting regarding a
The presentation indicated that the program was
in good shape. (It represented only information-
gathering; no further action was stimulated.)
I happened to sit with members of our training
organization, who complained about the difficulty
they had in getting me and other senior managers
to participate in training at our foreign locations
(information-gathering). This was news to me. I
made a note to follow up with my own schedule,
as well as with my staff, and to nudge them into
doing a better job supporting the foreign training
The bulk of the meeting involved getting sufficient
information on the status of the product and
the corrective action that had been implemented
(information-gathering). The meeting ended in a
decision made by the division manager, with my
concurrence, to resume shipment of the product.
Lecture at our employee
In the office, returning
This is a program in which senior management
gives all professional employees a presentation
describing the objectives, history, management
systems, etc., of the company and its major groups.
I am the first lecturer in the series. This clearly
represented information-giving, and I was a role
model not only in communicating the importance
we place on training, but also, by my handling of
questions and comments, in representing, in living
form, some of the values of the company. The
nature of the questions, at the same time, gave me
a feeling for the concerns and understanding level
of a large number of employees to whom I would
not otherwise have access. So this also represented
information-gathering, characteristic of the “visit”
type in its efficiency.
I disapproved granting a compensation increase to
a particular employee, which I thought was way
outside of the norm (clearly a decision). I decided to
conduct a meeting with a group of people to decide
what organization would move to a new site we
were opening in another state. (This was a decision
to hold a decision-making meeting.)
Met with my assistant. Discussed a variety of requests for my time for
a number of meetings in the upcoming week.
Suggested alternatives where I decided not to
Read the day’s mail, As with the morning’s mail reading, this was
including progress information-gathering, interspersed with nudging
reports. and decision-making through my annotations and
messages scribbled on much of it.
When you look at what happened, you won’t see any obvious patterns. I dealt with
things in seemingly random fashion. My wife's reaction to my day was that it looked very
much like one of her own. She was right in noting a similarity. My day always ends when
As you can see, much of my day is spent acquiring information. And as you can
also see, I use many ways to get it. I read standard reports and memos but also get
information ad hoc. I talk to people inside and outside the company, managers at other
firms or financial analysts or members of the press. Customer complaints, both external
and internal, are also a very important source of information. For example, the Intel
training organization, which I serve as an instructor, is an internal customer of mine.
To cut myself off from the casual complaints of people in that group would be a mistake
because I would miss getting an evaluation of my performance as an internal “supplier.”
People also tell us things because they want us to do something for them; to advance
their case, they will sometimes shower us with useful information. This is something we
should remember, apart from whether we do as they ask.
I have to confess that the information most useful to me, and I suspect most useful
to all managers, comes from quick, often casual verbal exchanges. This usually reaches
a manager much faster than anything written down. And usually the more timely the
information, the more valuable it is.
So why are written reports necessary at all? They obviously can’t provide timely
information. What they do is constitute an archive of data, help to validate ad hoc
inputs, and catch, in safety-net fashion, anything you may have missed. But reports
also have another totally different function. As they are formulated and written, the
author is forced to be more precise than he might be verbally. Hence their value stems
from the discipline and the thinking the writer is forced to impose upon himself as he
identifies and deals with trouble spots in his presentation. Reports are more a medium of
self-discipline than a way to communicate information. Writing the report is important;
reading it often is not.
There are many parallels to this. As we will see later, the preparation of an annual plan
is in itself the end, not the resulting bound volume. Similarly, our capital authorization
process itself is important, not the authorization itself. To prepare and justify a capital
spending request, people go through a lot of soul-searching analysis and juggling, and it
is this mental exercise that is valuable. The formal authorization is useful only because it
enforces the discipline of the process.
To improve and maintain your capacity to get information, you have to understand
the way it comes to you. There’s a hierarchy involved. Verbal sources are the most
valuable, but what they provide is also sketchy, Incomplete, and sometimes inaccurate,
like a newspaper headline that can give you only the general idea of a story. A headline
can't give any of the details and might even give you a distorted idea of what the real
story is. So you then read the newspaper article itself to find out who, what, where,
why, and how. After this, you should have some reiteration and perspective, which can
be compared to reading a news magazine or even a book. Each level in your information
hierarchy is important, and you can rely on none alone. Though the most thorough
information might come from the news magazine, you do not, of course, want to
wait a full week after an event to find out about it. Your information sources should
complement one another, and also be redundant because that gives you a way to verify
what you've learned.
There is an especially efficient way to get information, much neglected by most
managers. That is to visit a particular place in the company and observe what's going
on there. Why should you do this? Think of what happens when somebody comes to
see a manager in his office. A certain stop-and-start dynamics occurs when the visitor
sits down, something socially dictated. While a two-minute kernel of information is
exchanged, the meeting often takes a half hour. But if a manager walks through an area
and sees a person with whom he has a two-minute concern, he can simply stop, cover it,
and be on his way. Ditto for the subordinate when he initiates conversation. Accordingly,
such visits are an extremely effective and efficient way to transact managerial business.
Then why are they underutilized? Because of the awkwardness that managers feel
about walking through an area without a specific task in mind. At Intel we combat
this problem by using programmed visits meant to accomplish formal tasks, but which
also set the stage for ad hoc mini-transactions. For example, we ask our managers
to participate in “Mr. Clean” inspections, in which they go to a part of the company
that they normally wouldn’t visit. The managers examine the housekeeping, the
arrangement of things, the labs, and the safety equipment, and in so doing spend an
hour or so browsing around and getting acquainted with things firsthand.
As can be seen from my schedule, a manager not only gathers information but is also
a source of it. He must convey his knowledge to members of his own organization and
to other groups he influences. Beyond relaying facts, a manager must also communicate
his objectives, priorities, and preferences as they bear on the way certain tasks are
approached. This is extremely important, because only if the manager imparts these
will his subordinates know how to make decisions themselves that will be acceptable to
the manager, their supervisor. Thus, transmitting objectives and preferred approaches
constitutes a key to successful delegation. As we will see later, a shared corporate culture
becomes indispensable to a business. Someone adhering to the values of a corporate
culture—an intelligent corporate citizen—will behave in consistent fashion under
similar conditions, which means that managers don’t have to suffer the inefficiencies
engendered by formal rules, procedures, and regulations that are sometimes used to get
the same result.
The third major kind of managerial activity, of course, is decision-making. To be sure,
once in a while we managers in fact make a decision. But for every time that happens, we
participate in the making of many, many others, and we do that in a variety of ways. We
provide factual inputs or just offer opinions, we debate the pros and cons of alternatives
and thereby force a better decision to emerge, we review decisions made or about to be
made by others, encourage or discourage them, ratify or veto them.
Just how decisions should be made, we'll talk about later. Meanwhile, let’s say that
decisions can be separated into two kinds. The forward-looking sort are made, for
example, in the capital authorization process. Here we allocate the financial resources
of the company among various future undertakings. The second type is made as we
respond to a developing problem or a crisis, which can either be technical (a quality
control problem, for example) or involve people (talking somebody out of quitting).
It’s obvious that your decision-making depends finally on how well you comprehend
the facts and issues facing your business. This is why information-gathering is
so important in a manager's life. Other activities—conveying information, making
decisions, and being a role model for your subordinates—are all governed by the base of
information that you, the manager, have about the tasks, the issues, the needs, and the
problems facing your organization. In short, information-gathering is the basis of all
other managerial work, which is why I choose to spend so much of my day doing it.
You often do things at the office designed to influence events slightly, maybe making
a phone call to an associate suggesting that a decision be made in a certain way, or
sending a note or a memo that shows how you see a particular situation, or making
a comment during an oral presentation. In such instances you may be advocating
a preferred course of action, but you are not issuing an instruction or a command.
Yet you're doing something stronger than merely conveying information. Let’s call it
“nudging” because through it you nudge an individual or a meeting in the direction you
would like. This is an immensely important managerial activity in which we engage all
the time, and it should be carefully distinguished from decision-making that results in
firm, clear directives. In reality, for every unambiguous decision we make, we probably
nudge things a dozen times.
Finally, something more subtle pervades the day of all managers. While we move
about, doing what we regard as our jobs, we are role models for people in our organization
—our subordinates, our peers, and even our supervisors. Much has been said and written
about a manager's need to be a leader. The fact is, no single managerial activity can
be said to constitute leadership, and nothing leads as well as example. By this I mean
something straightforward. Values and behavioral norms are simply not transmitted
easily by talk or memo, but are conveyed very effectively by doing and doing visibly.
All managers need to act so that they can be seen exerting influence, but they should
do soin their own way. Some of us feel comfortable dealing with large groups and talking
about our feelings and values openly in that fashion. Others prefer working one-on-
one with people in a quieter, more intellectual environment. These and other styles of
leadership will work, but only if we recognize and consciously stress the need for us to be
role models for people in our organization.
Don’t think for a moment that the way I’ve described leadership applies only to large
operations. An insurance agent in a small office who continually talks with personal
friends on the phone imparts a set of values about permissible conduct to everyone
working for him. A lawyer who returns to his office after lunch a little drunk does the
same. On the other hand, a supervisor in a company, large or small, who takes his work
seriously exemplifies to his associates the most important managerial value of all.
A great deal of a manager’s work has to do with allocating resources: manpower,
money, and capital. But the single most important resource that we allocate from one
day to the next is our own time. In principle more money, more manpower, or more
capital can always be made available, but our own time is the one absolutely finite
resource we each have. Its allocation and use therefore deserve considerable attention.
How you handle your own time is, in my view, the single most important aspect of being
arole model and leader.
As you can see, in a typical day of mine one can count some twenty-five separate
activities in which I participated, mostly information-gathering and -giving, but also
decision-making and nudging. You can also see that some two thirds of my time was
spent in a meeting of one kind or another. Before you are horrified by how much time
I spend in meetings, answer a question: which of the activities—information-gathering,
information-giving, decision-making, nudging, and being a role model—could I have
performed outside a meeting? The answer is practically none. Meetings provide an
occasion for managerial activities. Getting together with others is not, of course, an
activity—it is a medium. You as a manager can do your work in a meeting, in a memo, or
through a loudspeaker for that matter. But you must choose the most effective medium
for what you want to accomplish, and that is the one that gives you the greatest leverage.
More about meetings later.
Leverage of Managerial Activity
We've established that the output of a manager is the output of the various organizations
under his control and his influence. What can a manager do to increase his output?
To find out, let’s look at the concept of leverage. Leverage is the measure of the output
generated by any given managerial activity. Accordingly, managerial output can be
linked to managerial activity by the equation:
Managerial Output Output of organization
This equation says that for every activity a manager performs—A,, A,, and so on—
the output of the organization should increase by some degree. The extent to which that
output is thereby increased is determined by the leverage of that activity—L,, L,, and
so on. A manager’s output is thus the sum of the result of individual activities having
varying degrees of leverage. Clearly the key to high output means being sensitive to the
leverage of what you do during the day.
Managerial productivity—that is, the output of a manager per unit of time worked—
can be increased in three ways:
1. Increasing the rate with which a manager performs his activities, speeding up his
2. Increasing the leverage associated with the various managerial activities.
3. Shifting the mix of a manager’s activities from those with lower to those with
Let us consider first the leverage of various types of managerial work.
These can be achieved in three basic ways:
+ When many people are affected by one manager.
+ When a person’s activity or behavior over a long period of time is affected by a
manager's brief, well-focused set of words or actions.
- When a large group's work is affected by an individual supplying a unique, Key piece
of knowledge or information.
The first is the most obvious example. Consider Robin, an Intel finance manager,
responsible for setting up the annual financial planning process for the company. When
Robin defines in advance exactly what information needs to be gathered and presented
at each stage of the planning process and lays out who is responsible for what, she
directly affects the subsequent work of perhaps two hundred people who participate in
the planning process. By spending a certain amount of time in advance of the planning
activities, Robin will help to eliminate confusion and ambiguity for a large population
of managers over an extended period of time. Consequently, her work contributes to
the productivity of the entire organization and clearly has great leverage, leverage that
depends, however, on when it is performed. Work done in advance of the planning
meeting obviously has great leverage. If Robin has to scramble later to help a manager
define guidelines and milestones, her work will clearly have much less leverage.
Another example of leverage that depends on timely action is what you do when you
learn that a valued subordinate has decided to quit. In such a case, you must direct
yourself to the situation immediately if you want to change the person's mind. If you put
it off, all your chances are lost. Thus to maximize the leverage of his activities, a manager
must keep timeliness, which is often critical, firmly in mind.
Leverage can also be negative. Some managerial activities can reduce the output of an
organization. I mean something very simple. Suppose Iam a key participant at a meeting
and I arrive unprepared. Not only dol waste the time of the people attending the meeting
because of my lack of preparation—a direct cost of my carelessness—but I deprive the
other participants of the opportunity to use that time to do something else.
Each time a manager imparts his knowledge, skills, or values to a group, his leverage
is high, as members of the group will carry what they learn to many others. But again,
leverage can be positive or negative. An example of leverage that I hope is high and
positive is my talk in the orientation course. During the two hours I have, I try to impart
a great deal of information about Intel—its history, its objectives, its values, its style—
to a group of two hundred new employees. Besides what I say specifically, my approach
toward answering questions and my conduct in general communicate our way of doing
things to these employees when they are most impressionable.
Here is another example of this kind of leverage. To train a group of salesmen, Barbara,
an Intel marketing engineer, sets out to teach them what the organization’s products are.
If she does her job well, the salespeople will be better equipped to sell the line. If she does
it poorly, great and obvious damage is done.
A final, less formal, example here: Cindy, as you recall, is a member of a technical
coordinating body in which she tries to disseminate her understanding of a specific
technology to all of the company’s manufacturing groups. In effect, she uses the
coordinating body as an informal training vehicle to effect high leverage on her
counterparts in neighboring Intel organizations.
A manager can also exert high leverage by engaging in an activity that takes him
only a short time, but that affects another person’s performance over a long time. A
performance review represents a good example of this. With the few hours’ work that
a manager spends preparing and delivering the review, he can affect the work of its
recipient enormously. Here too a manager can exert either positive or negative leverage.
A subordinate can be motivated and even redirected in his efforts, or the review can
discourage and demoralize him for who knows how long.
Another seemingly trivial piece of work—creating a tickler file—can improve daily
work significantly for a long time. Setting up the simple mechanical aid is a one-
time activity, yet it is likely to improve the productivity of the manager who uses it
indefinitely. Thus the leverage here is very, very high.
Examples of high negative leverage abound. After going through the annual planning
process, an Intel manager saw that, in spite of successful cost reduction efforts in the
prior year, his division was still not going to make any money in the coming year. The
manager became depressed. Though he didn’t realize it, he almost immediately began
to affect people around him and soon depression spread throughout his organization.
He snapped out of it only when someone on his staff finally told him what he was
doing to the people under him. Another example is waffling, when a manager puts off a
decision that will affect the work of other people. In effect, the lack of a decision is the
Both the depressed and the waffling manager can have virtually unlimited negative
leverage. If people are badly affected by a poor sales training effort, the situation can
be handled by retraining the group. But the negative leverage produced by depression
and waffling is very hard to counter because their impact on an organization is both so
pervasive and so elusive.
Managerial meddling is also an example of negative leverage. This occurs when
a supervisor uses his superior knowledge and experience of a subordinate’s
work things through himself. For example, if a senior manager sees an indicator
showing an undesirable trend and dictates to the person responsible a detailed set of
actions to be taken, that is managerial meddling. In general, meddling stems from
a supervisor exploiting too much superior work knowledge (real or imagined). The
negative leverage produced comes from the fact that after being exposed to many such
instances, the subordinate will begin to take a much more restricted view of what is
expected of him, showing less initiative in solving his own problems and referring them
instead to his supervisor. Because the output of the organization will consequently be
reduced in the long run, meddling is clearly an activity having negative managerial
The third kind of managerial activity with high leverage is exercised by a person with
unique skills and knowledge. One such person is an Intel marketing engineer responsible
for setting prices for the product line. Hundreds of salespeople in the field can be
negatively affected if prices are set too high: no matter how hard they may try, they won't
be able to get any business. Of course, if the prices were set too low, we would be giving
Take another example. An Intel development engineer who has uniquely detailed
knowledge of a particular manufacturing process effectively controls how it is used.
Since the process will eventually provide the foundation for the work of many
product designers all over the company, the leverage the development engineer exerts
is enormous. The same is true for a geologist in an oil company or an actuary in
an insurance firm. All are specialists whose work is important for the work of their
organization at large. The person who comprehends the critical facts or has the critical
insights—the “knowledge specialist” or the “know-how manager”—has tremendous
authority and influence on the work of others, and therefore very high leverage.
The art of management lies in the capacity to select from the many activities of
seemingly comparable significance the one or two or three that provide leverage well
beyond the others and concentrate on them. For me, paying close attention to customer
complaints constitutes a high-leverage activity. Aside from making a customer happy,
the pursuit tends to produce important insights into the workings of my own operation.
Such complaints may be numerous, and though all of them need to be followed up
by someone, they don't all require or wouldn't all benefit from my personal attention.
Which one out of ten or twenty complaints to dig into, analyze, and follow up is where
art comes into the work of a manager. The basis of that art is an intuition that behind
this complaint and not the other lurk many deeper problems.
DELEGATION AS LEVERAGE
Because managerial time has a hierarchy of values, delegation is an essential aspect of
management. The “delegator” and “delegatee” must share a common information base
and a common set of operational ideas or notions on how to go about solving problems, a
requirement that is frequently not met. Unless both parties share the relevant common
base, the delegatee can become an effective proxy only with specific instructions. As in
meddling, where specific activities are prescribed in detail, this produces low managerial
Picture this. Iam your supervisor, and I walk over to you with pencil in hand and tell
you to take it. You reach for the pencil, but I won't let go. So I say, “What is wrong with
you? Why can't I delegate the pencil to you?” We all have some things that we don't really
want to delegate simply because we like doing them and would rather not let go. For your
managerial effectiveness, this is not too bad so long as it is based on a conscious decision
that you will hold on to certain tasks that you enjoy performing, even though you could,
if you chose, delegate them. But be sure to know exactly what you're doing, and avoid
the charade of insincere delegation, which can produce immense negative managerial
Given a choice, should you delegate activities that are familiar to you or those that
aren't? Before answering, consider the following principle: delegation without follow-
through is abdication. You can never wash your hands of a task. Even after you delegate
it, you are still responsible for its accomplishment, and monitoring the delegated task is
the only practical way for you to ensure a result. Monitoring is not meddling, but means
checking to make sure an activity is proceeding in line with expectations. Because it is
easier to monitor something with which you are familiar, if you have a choice you should
delegate those activities you know best. But recall the pencil experiment and understand
before the fact that this will very likely go against your emotional grain.
Please turn back to the table of my day’s activities on this page. During the executive
staff meeting we heard two follow-up presentations, one on the status of an extremely
important marketing program and the other on the progress of a program aimed at
reducing manufacturing throughput times. Both reviews are examples of monitoring.
Earlier, we had assigned each to a middle manager and made sure these managers and
the senior staff agreed about what the programs were to be. The middle managers then
went about their business expecting to report back to the executive staff, the body that
delegated the programs to them.
Monitoring the results of delegation resembles the monitoring used in quality
assurance. We should apply quality assurance principles and monitor at the lowest-
added-value stage of the process. For example, review rough drafts of reports that you
have delegated; don’t wait until your subordinates have spent time polishing them into
final form before you find out that you have a basic problem with the contents. A second
principle applies to the frequency with which you check your subordinates’ work. A
variable approach should be employed, using different sampling schemes with various
subordinates; you should increase or decrease your frequency depending on whether
your subordinate is performing a newly delegated task or one that he has experience
handling. How often you monitor should not be based on what you believe your
subordinate can do in general, but on his experience with a specific task and his prior
performance with it—his task-relevant maturity, something I'll talk about in detail later.
As the subordinate’s work improves over time, you should respond with a corresponding
reduction in the intensity of the monitoring.
To use quality assurance principles effectively, the manager should only go into
details randomly, just enough to try to ensure that the subordinate is moving ahead
satisfactorily. To check into all the details of a delegated task would be like quality
assurance testing 100 percent of what manufacturing turned out.
Making certain types of decisions is something managers frequently delegate to
subordinates. How is this best done? By monitoring their decision-making process. How
do you do that? Let’s examine what Intel goes through to approve a capital equipment
purchase. We ask a subordinate to think through the entire matter carefully before
presenting a request for approval. And to monitor how good his thinking is, we ask him
quite specific questions about his request during a review meeting. If he answers them
convincingly, we'll approve what he wants. This technique allows us to find out how
good the thinking is without having to go through it ourselves.
Increasing Managerial Activity Rate: Speeding Up the Line
Of course, the most obvious way to increase managerial output is to increase the rate, or
speed, of performing work. The relationship here is:
where L is the leverage of the activity.
The most common approach to increasing a manager’s productivity—his output over
time—has been time-management techniques, which try to reduce the denominator on
both sides of this equation. Any number of consultants will tell a manager that the way
to higher productivity is to handle a piece of paper only once, to hold only stand-up
meetings (which will presumably be short), and to turn his desk so that he presents his
back to the door.
These time-management suggestions can be improved upon, I think, by applying our
production principles. First, we must identify our limiting step: what is the “egg” in
our work? In a manager’s life some things really have to happen on a schedule that is
absolute. For me, an example is the class I teach. I know when it is going to meet, and I
know I must prepare for it. There is no “give” in the time here, because over two hundred
students will be expecting me. Accordingly, I have to create offsets and schedule my
other work around this limiting step. In short, if we determine what is immovable and
manipulate the more yielding activities around it, we can work more efficiently.
A second production principle we can apply to managerial work is batching similar
tasks. Any manufacturing operation requires a certain amount of set-up time. So for
managerial work to proceed efficiently, we should use the same set-up effort to apply
across a group of similar activities. Think about our continuous egg-boiler, which was
installed to produce fine-quality, identical, three-minute eggs. Should we now decide to
serve our customers four-minute eggs, we would have to slow down the conveyor belt
moving them through the hot water. The adjustment takes time: not only do we adjust
nuts and bolts on the machine, we also have to inspect the quality of the four-minute
eggs by sampling a few of them.
Set-up time has many parallels in managerial work. For example, once we have
prepared a set of illustrations for a training class, we will obviously increase our
productivity if we can use the same set over and over again with other classes or groups.
Similarly, if a manager has a number of reports to read or a number of performance
reviews to approve, he should set aside a block of time and do a batch of them together,
one after the other, to maximize the use of the mental set-up time needed for the task.
What makes running a factory different from running a job shop? The latter is
prepared to service any customer who drops in; the owner handles the job required
and moves on to the next one. A factory, on the other hand, is usually run by forecast
and not by individual order. From my experience a large portion of managerial work
can be forecasted. Accordingly, forecasting those things you can and setting yourself up
to do them is only common sense and an important way to minimize the feeling and
the reality of fragmentation experienced in managerial work. Forecasting and planning
your time around key events are literally like running an efficient factory.
What is the medium of a manager’s forecast? It is something very simple: his calendar.
Most people use their calendars as a repository of “orders” that come in. Someone throws
an order to a manager for his time, and it automatically shows up on his calendar. This
is mindless passivity. To gain better control of his time, the manager should use his
Another production principle can be applied here. Because manufacturing people
trust their indicators, they won't allow material to begin its journey through the factory
if they think it is already operating at capacity. If they did, material might go halfway
through and back up behind a bottleneck. Instead, factory managers say “no” at the
outset and keep the start level from overloading the system. Other kinds of managers
find this hard to apply because their indicators of capacity are not as well established or
not as believable. How much time do you need to read your mail, to write your reports,
to meet with a colleague? You may not know precisely, but you surely have a feel for the
time required. And you should exploit that sense to schedule your work.
To use your calendar as a production-planning tool, you must accept responsibility
for two things:
1. You should move toward the active use of your calendar, taking the initiative
to fill the holes between the time-critical events with non-time-critical though
2. You should say “no” at the outset to work beyond your capacity to handle.
means losing more money and time. You can obviously say “no” either explicitly
or implicitly, because by not delivering you end up saying what amounts to “no.”
Remember too that your time is your one finite resource, and when you say “yes” to one
thing you are inevitably saying “no” to another.
The next production principle you can apply is to allow slack—a bit of looseness in
your scheduling. Highway planners, for example, know that a freeway can handle an
optimum number of vehicles. Having fewer cars means that the road is not being used at
capacity. But at that optimum point, ifjust afew more cars are allowed to enter the traffic
flow, everything comes to a crunching halt. With the new metering devices that control
access during the rush hour, planners can get a fix on the right number. The same thing
can be done for managerial work. There is an optimum degree of loading, with enough
slack built in so that one unanticipated phone call will not ruin your schedule for the rest
of the day. You need some slack.
Another production principle is very nearly the opposite. A manager should carry a
raw material inventory in terms of projects. This is not to be confused with his work-in-
process inventory, because that, like eggs in a continuous boiler, tends to spoil or become
obsolete over time. Instead this inventory should consist of things you need to do but
don’t need to finish right away—discretionary projects, the kind the manager can work
on to increase his group's productivity over the long term. Without such an inventory
of projects, a manager will most probably use his free time meddling in his subordinates’
A final principle. Most production practices follow well-established procedures and,
rather than reinventing the wheel repeatedly, use a specific method that has been shown
to work before. But managers tend to be inconsistent and bring a welter of approaches to
the same task. We should work to change that. As we become more consistent, we should
also remember that the value of an administrative procedure is contained not in formal
statements but in the real thinking that led to its establishment. This means that even as
we try to standardize what we do, we should continue to think critically about what we
do and the approaches we use.
Built-In Leverage: How Many Subordinates Should You Have...
An important component of managerial leverage is the number of subordinates a
manager has. [f he does not have enough, his leverage is obviously reduced. If he has too
many, he gets bogged down—with the same result. As a rule of thumb, a manager whose
work is largely supervisory should have six to eight subordinates; three or four are too
few and ten are too many. This range comes from a guideline that a manager should
allocate about a half day per week to each of his subordinates. (Two days a week per
subordinate would probably lead to meddling; an hour a week does not provide enough
opportunity for monitoring.)
The six to eight rule is right for the classically hierarchical manager whose primary
work is the supervision of others. What about a know-how manager, the middle
manager who mainly supplies expertise and information? Even if he works without a
single subordinate, servicing a number of varied “customers” as an internal consultant
can in itself be a full-time job. In fact, anyone who spends about a half day per week
as a member of a planning, advisory, or coordinating group has the equivalent of a
subordinate. So as a rule of thumb, if a manager is both a hierarchical supervisor and a
supplier of know-how, he should try to have a total of six to eight subordinates or their
Sometimes a business is organized in a way that makes the ideal fan-out of six to
eight subordinates hard to reach. A manufacturing plant, for example, may have an
engineering section and a production section, in which case the plant manager would
only have two people reporting directly to him. The manager might then choose to
“act” as one of the two subordinates, choosing to be his own engineering manager, for
instance. If he does that, the manufacturing manager will still report to him, and he
will have added the people who would ordinarily report to the head of engineering.
So the plant manager will actually have six direct reports: five engineers and the
manufacturing manager. The arrangement, shown below, does not have the engineers
appearing to be at the same organizational level as the manufacturing manager—
something he would surely take exception to.
Manufacturing E = Manufacturing
Manager Manager anager
NOT OK OK
This arrangement will avoid forcing the plant manager either
into on-the-job retirement or inte meddling.
Interruptions—The Plague of Managerial Work
The next important production concept we can apply to managerial work is to strive
toward regularity, We could obviously run our breakfast factory more efficiently if
customers arrived in a steady and predictable stream rather than dropping in by ones
and twos. Though we can’t control our customers’ habits, we should try to smooth out
our workload as much as possible. As noted, we should try to make our managerial
work take on the characteristics of a factory, not a job shop. Accordingly, we should do
everything we can to prevent little stops and starts in our day as well as interruptions
brought on by big emergencies. Even though some of the latter are unavoidable, we
should always be looking for sources of future high-priority trouble by cutting windows
into the black box of our organization. Recognizing you've got a time bomb on your
hands means you can address a problem when you want to, not after the bomb has gone
But because you must coordinate your work with that of other managers, you can
only move toward regularity if others do too. In other words, the same blocks of time
must be used for like activities. For example, at Intel Monday mornings have been set
aside throughout the corporation as the time when planning groups meet. So anybody
who belongs to one can count on Monday for that purpose and be free of scheduling
About twenty middle managers at Intel were once asked to be part of an experiment.
After pairing up, they tried some role-playing in which one manager was to define the
problem most limiting his output and the other was to be a consultant who would
analyze the problem and propose solutions.
The most common problem cited was uncontrolled interruptions, which in remarkably
uniform fashion affected both supervisory and know-how managers. Everyone felt that
the interruptions got in the way of his “own” work. Interruptions had a common source,
most frequently coming from subordinates and from people outside the managers’
immediate organization but whose work the managers influenced. For those in
manufacturing, the interruptions most often came from production operators, and for
marketing people, from outside customers: in short, from the consumers of the middle
managers’ authority and information.
The most frequently proposed solutions were not very practical. The idea mentioned
most often was to create blocks of time for individual work by hiding physically. But
this is a less than happy answer, because the interrupters obviously have legitimate
problems, and if the manager responded by hiding, these would pile up. One “solution”
was a suggestion that customers not call marketing managers at certain hours. No good.
There are better ways. Let’s apply a production concept. Manufacturers turn out
standard products. By analogy, if you can pin down what kind of interruptions you're
getting, you can prepare standard responses for those that pop up most often. Customers
don’t come up with totally new questions and problems day in and day out, and because
the same ones tend to surface repeatedly, a manager can reduce time spent handling
interruptions using standard responses. Having them available also means that a
manager can delegate much of the job to less experienced personnel.
Also, if you use the production principle of batching—that is, handling a group of
similar chores at one time—many interruptions that come from your subordinates can
be accumulated and handled not randomly, but at staff and at one-on-one meetings, the
subject of the next chapter. If such meetings are held regularly, people can't protest too
much if they’re asked to batch questions and problems for scheduled times, instead of
interrupting you whenever they want.
The use of indicators, especially the bank of indicators kept over time, can also
reduce the time a manager spends dealing with interruptions. How fast he can answer
a question depends on how fast he can put his finger on the information he needs for a
response. By maintaining an archive of information, a manager doesn’t have to do ad hoc
research every time the phone rings.
If the people who interrupt you knew how much they were disturbing you, they
would probably police themselves more closely and cut down on the number of times
they felt they had to talk to you right away. In any case, a manager should try to force
his frequent interrupters to make an active decision about whether an issue can wait.
So, instead of going into hiding, a manager can hang a sign on his door that says, “I am
doing individual work. Please don't interrupt me unless it really can't wait until 2:00.”
Then hold an open office hour, and be completely receptive to anybody who wants to see
you. The key is this: understand that interrupters have legitimate problems that need
to be handled. That’s why they’re bringing them to you. But you can channel the time
needed to deal with them into organized, scheduled form by providing an alternative to
interruption—a scheduled meeting or an office hour.
The point is to impose a pattern on the way a manager copes with problems. To make
something regular that was once irregular is a fundamental production principle, and
that’s how you should try to handle the interruptions that plague you.