YOUR KINDLE NOTES FOR: High Output Management by Andrew S. Grove 189 Highlights 
 3 Notes Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 93 We did all this because under this strong attack, we learned that we must lead with our strength. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 137 Middle managers are the muscle and bone of every sizable organization, Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 156 anything that can be done will be done, if not by you, then by someone else. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 157 you need to develop a higher tolerance for disorder. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 165 “Let chaos reign, then rein in chaos.” Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 170 As a micro CEO, you can improve your own and your group’s performance and productivity, whether or not the rest of the company follows suit. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 184 The output of a manager is the output of the organizational units under his or her supervision or influence. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 185 what can managers do to increase the output of their teams? Free Kindle instant preview: https://a.co/9pe6kY8 Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 188 High managerial productivity, I argue, depends largely on choosing to perform tasks that possess high leverage. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 189 A team will perform well only if peak performance is elicited from the individuals in it. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 196 Second, a responsive company should have fewer levels of managers. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 246 The key to survival is to learn to add more value—and that ultimately is what this book is about. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 257 the essential skill of entrepreneurship: how to manage. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 290 A manager’s output = the output of his organization + the output of the neighboring organizations under his influence. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 293 A manager’s skills and knowledge are only valuable if she uses them to get more leverage from her people. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 303 you must understand that energy put in early in the process pays off Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 304 tenfold and energy put in at the end of the program pays off negative tenfold. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 381 These are to build and deliver products in response to the demands of the customer at a scheduled delivery time, at an acceptable quality level, and at the lowest possible cost. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 471 equipment capacity, manpower, and inventory can be traded off against each other and then balanced against delivery time. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 499 The point is that whenever possible, you should choose in-process tests over those that destroy product. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 516 A common rule we should always try to heed is to detect and fix any problem in a production process at the lowest-value stage possible. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 571 So because indicators direct one’s activities, you should guard against overreacting. This you can do by pairing indicators, Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 579 The first rule is that a measurement—any measurement—is better than none. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 579 But a genuinely effective indicator will cover the output of the work unit and not simply the activity involved. Obviously, you measure a salesman by the orders he gets (output), not by the calls he makes (activity). Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 625 Leading indicators give you one way to look inside the black box by showing you in advance what the future might look like. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 626 Of course, for leading indicators to do you any good, you must believe in their validity. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 628 But unless you are prepared to act on what your leading indicators are telling you, all you will get from monitoring them is anxiety. Highlight (Yellow) and Note 
 Location 638 allowing us time to take corrective action. La unica razon d tener indicadores es tomar acciones correctivas Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 732 it is vitally important to reject defective material at a stage where its accumulated value is at the lowest possible level. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 734 In short, reject before investing further value. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 749 one should never let substandard material proceed when its defects could cause a complete failure—a reliability problem—for our customer. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 751 Simply put, because we can never assess the consequences of an unreliable product, we can’t make compromises when it comes to reliability. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 758 minimum disturbance to the production process itself. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 786 this only created more logistical overhead with no effect on output. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 818 leverage, which is the output generated by a specific type of work activity. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 841 And as noted, stressing output is the key to improving productivity, while looking to increase activity can result in just the opposite. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 886 They are absolutely my job—not my entire job, but part of it, because they help add to the output of Intel. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 963 My day always ends when I’m tired and ready to go home, not when I’m done. I am never done. Like a housewife’s, a manager’s work is never done. There is always more to be done, more that should be done, always more than can be done. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 965 A manager must keep many balls in the air at the same time and shift his energy and attention to activities that will most increase the output of his organization. In other words, he should move to the point where his leverage will be the greatest. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 980 Reports are more a medium of self-discipline than a way to communicate information. Writing the report is important; reading it often is not. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 985 The formal authorization is useful only because it enforces the discipline of the process. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1005 Beyond relaying facts, a manager must also communicate his objectives, priorities, and preferences as they bear on the way certain tasks are approached. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1007 Thus, transmitting objectives and preferred approaches constitutes a key to successful delegation. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1019 your decision-making depends finally on how well you comprehend the facts and issues facing your business. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1022 In short, information-gathering is the basis of all other managerial work, which is why I choose to spend so much of my day doing it. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1033 Values and behavioral norms are simply not transmitted easily by talk or memo, but are conveyed very effectively by doing and doing visibly. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1042 But the single most important resource that we allocate from one day to the next is our own time. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1045 How you handle your own time is, in my view, the single most important aspect of being a role model and leader. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1065 Clearly the key to high output means being sensitive to the leverage of what you do during the day. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1080 By spending a certain amount of time in advance of the planning activities, Robin will help to eliminate confusion and ambiguity for a large population of managers over an extended period of time. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1086 Thus to maximize the leverage of his activities, a manager must keep timeliness, which is often critical, firmly in mind. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1101 A manager can also exert high leverage by engaging in an activity that takes him only a short time, but that affects another person’s performance over a long time. A performance review represents a good example of this. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1113 the lack of a decision is the same as a negative decision; no green light is a red light, and work can stop for a whole organization. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1117 This occurs when a supervisor uses his superior knowledge and experience of a subordinate’s responsibilities to assume command of a situation rather than letting the subordinate work things through himself. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1121 the subordinate will begin to take a much more restricted view of what is expected of him, Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1122 showing less initiative in solving his own problems Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1133 The art of management lies in the capacity to select from the many activities of seemingly comparable significance the one or two or three that provide leverage well beyond the others and concentrate on them. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1149 avoid the charade of insincere delegation, which can produce immense negative managerial leverage. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1151 delegation without follow-through is abdication. You can never wash your hands of a task. Even after you delegate it, you are still responsible for its accomplishment, Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1161 We should apply quality assurance principles and monitor at Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1161 the lowest-added-value stage of the process. For example, review rough drafts of reports that you have delegated; don’t wait until your subordinates have spent time polishing them into final form before you find out that you have a basic problem with the contents. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1168 As the subordinate’s work improves over time, you should respond with a corresponding reduction in the intensity of the monitoring. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1186 what is the “egg” in our work? Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1191 A second production principle we can apply to managerial work is batching similar tasks. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1199 to maximize the use of the mental set-up time needed for the task. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1208 the manager should use his calendar as a “production” planning tool, taking a firm initiative to schedule work that is not time-critical between those “limiting steps” in the day. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1219 It is important to say “no” earlier rather than later because we’ve learned that to wait until something reaches a higher value stage and then abort due to lack of capacity means losing more money and time. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1265 Accordingly, we should do everything we can to prevent little stops and starts in our day as well as interruptions brought on by big emergencies. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1291 By maintaining an archive of information, a manager doesn’t have to do ad hoc research every time the phone rings. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1297 The key is this: understand that interrupters have legitimate problems that need to be handled. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1359 So the latter should be asked to prepare an outline, which is very important because it forces him to think through in advance all of the issues and points he plans to raise. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1366 even if it’s only an intuition that something’s wrong, a subordinate owes it to his supervisor to tell him, Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1439 Please note that lecturer is not listed. A supervisor should never use staff meetings to pontificate, which is the surest way to undermine free discussion and hence the meeting’s basic purpose. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1471 Because the senior supervisor is a role model for the junior managers present, he should take his role at the review extremely seriously. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1505 It is not enough to ask people and hope for the best; you need to follow up and get commitments. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1539 The minutes should also be as clear and as specific as possible, telling the reader what is to be done, who is to do it, and when. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1565 If Intel used people holding old-fashioned position power to make all its decisions, decisions would be made by people unfamiliar with the technology of the day. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1585 The next stage is reaching a clear decision. Again, the greater the disagreement about the issue, the more important becomes the word clear. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1590 Finally, everyone involved must give the decision reached by the group full support. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1590 This does not necessarily mean agreement: Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1594 But an organization does not live by its members agreeing with one another at all times about everything. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1604 that any decision be worked out and reached at the lowest competent level. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1632 Peers tend to look for a more senior manager, even if he is not the most competent or knowledgeable person involved, to take over and shape a meeting. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1645 self-confidence mostly comes from a gut-level realization that nobody has ever died from making a wrong business decision, Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1711 this was a big enough deal that the president of the company should be involved. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1839 But today’s gap represents a failure of planning sometime in the past. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1841 What do I have to do today to solve—or better, avoid—tomorrow’s problem? Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1845 In other words, the output of the planning process is the decisions made and the actions taken as a result of the process. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1880 that if we try to focus on everything, we focus on nothing. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1897 if the subordinate’s objectives are met, the supervisor’s will be as well. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1912 Note that the objective is relatively short-range and the key results are so specific that a person knows without question whether he has completed them and done it on time or not. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1914 there is no room for ambiguity. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1934 Before long we found, however, that the network required a set of tasks and skills very different from those needed to run our one restaurant. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1974 We now discover that management is not just a team game, it is a game in which we have to fashion a team of teams, Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1981 Though most are mixed, organizations can come in two extreme forms: in totally mission-oriented form or in totally functional form. Note 
 Location 1987 Nosotros queremos ser mission oriented pero no lo hemos logrdo Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 1999 “Good management rests on a reconciliation of centralization and decentralization.” Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2002 Our hybrid nature comes from the fact that the form of the overall corporate organization results from a mix of the business divisions, which are mission-oriented, and the functional groups. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2005 Because each such unit does not have to maintain its own support groups, it can concentrate on a specific mission, like taking a hill in a battle. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2033 What are some of the advantages of organizing much of a company in a mission-oriented form? There is only one. It is that the individual units can stay in touch with the needs of their business or product areas and initiate changes rapidly when those needs change. That is it. All other considerations favor the functional-type of organization. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2054 Here I would like to propose Grove’s Law: All large organizations with a common business purpose end up in a hybrid organizational form. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2067 Do any exceptions exist to the universality of hybrid organizations? The only exceptions that come to my mind are conglomerates, which are typically organized in a totally mission-oriented form. Why are they an exception to our rule? Because they do not have a common business purpose. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2116 After we wrestled with the dilemma for a while, it occurred to us that perhaps security personnel should report jointly to the corporate security manager and to the local plant manager. The first would specify how the job ought to be done, and the second would monitor how it was being performed day by day. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2119 Could an employee in fact have two bosses? The answer was a tentative “yes,” and the culture of joint reporting relationships, dual reporting, was born. It was a slow, laborious birth. Note 
 Location 2149 Nuestro caso en el área de diseño Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2234 Our ability to use Cindy’s skill and know-how in two different capacities makes it possible for her to exert a much larger leverage at Intel. In her main job, her knowledge affects the work that takes place in one plant; in her second, through what she does in the process coordinating group, she can influence the work of all plants. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2273 Similarly, our behavior in a work environment can be controlled by three invisible and pervasive means. These are: • free-market forces • contractual obligations • cultural values Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2318 As for cultural values, management has to develop and nurture the common set of values, objectives, and methods essential for the existence of trust. How do we do that? One way is by articulation, by spelling out these values, objectives, and methods. The other, even more important, way is by example. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2346 Let’s apply our model to the work of a new employee. What is his motivation? It is very much based on self- interest. So you should give him a clearly structured job with a low CUA factor. If he does well, he will begin to feel more at home, worry less about himself, and start to care more about his team. He learns that if he is on a boat and wants to get ahead, it is better for him to help row than to run to the bow. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2352 Bring young people in at relatively low-level, well-defined jobs with low CUA factors, and over time they will share experiences with their peers, supervisors, and subordinates and will learn the values, objectives, and methods of the organization. They will gradually accept, even flourish in, the complex world of multiple bosses and peer decision-making. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2372 The point is, expectations can be as binding as a legal document. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2386 Belief and faith are not aspects of the market mode, but stem from adherence to cultural values. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2397 When a person is not doing his job, there can only be two reasons for it. The person either can’t do it or won’t do it; he is either not capable or not motivated. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2402 The single most important task of a manager is to elicit peak performance from his subordinates. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2407 A manager has two ways to improve performance: training and motivation. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2410 Accordingly, all a manager can do is create an environment in which motivated people can flourish. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2412 What matters is if he performs better or worse because his environment changed. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2424 For Maslow, motivation is closely tied to the idea of needs, which cause people to have drives, which in turn result in motivation. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2455 As one’s environment or condition in life changes, one’s desire to satisfy a particular set of needs is replaced by a desire to satisfy another set. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2477 All of the sources of motivation we’ve talked about so far are self-limiting. That is, when a need is gratified, it can no longer motivate a person. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2503 When the need to stretch is not spontaneous, management needs to create an environment to foster it. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2506 Such goal-setting is extremely important if what you want is peak performance from yourself and your subordinates. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2507 Moreover, if we want to cultivate achievement-driven motivation, we need to create an environment that values and emphasizes output. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2530 The most important type of measure is feedback on his performance. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2540 The most important form of such task-relevant feedback is the performance review every subordinate should receive from his supervisor. More about this later. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2553 Thus, our role as managers is, first, to train the individuals (to move them along the horizontal axis shown in the because once there, their motivation will be self-sustaining and limitless. illustration on this page), and, second, to bring them to the point where self-actualization motivates them, Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2567 Our society respects someone’s throwing himself into sports, but anybody who works very long hours is regarded as sick, a workaholic. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2577 This is key to the manager’s approach and involvement: he has to see the work as it is seen by the people who do that work every day and then create indicators so that his subordinates can watch their “racetrack” take shape. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2584 Comparing our work to sports may also teach us how to cope with failure. As noted, one of the big impediments to a fully committed, highly motivated state of mind is preoccupation with failure. Yet we know that in any competitive sport, at least 50 percent of all matches are lost. All participants know that from the outset, and yet rarely do they give up at any stage of a contest. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2586 The role of the manager here is also clear: it is that of the coach. First, an ideal coach takes no personal credit for the success of his team, and because of that his players trust him. Second, he is tough on his team. By being critical, he tries to get the best performance his team members can provide. Third, a good coach was likely a good player himself at one time. And having played the game well, he also understands it well. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2624 The conclusion is that varying management styles are needed as task-relevant maturity varies. Specifically, when the TRM is low, the most effective approach is one that offers very precise and detailed instructions, wherein the supervisor tells the subordinate what needs to be done, when, and how: in other words, a highly structured approach. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2630 But regardless of what the TRM may be, the manager should always monitor a subordinate’s work closely enough to avoid surprises. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2646 TASK-RELEVANT MATURITY OF SUBORDINATE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT STYLE low Structured; task-oriented; tell “what,” “when,” “how” medium Individual- oriented; emphasis on two-way communication, support, mutual reasoning high Involvement by manager minimal: establishing objectives and monitoring Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2665 The subordinate did poor work. My associate’s reaction: “He has to make his own mistakes. That’s how he learns!” The problem with this is that the subordinate’s tuition is paid by his customers. And that is absolutely wrong. The responsibility for teaching the subordinate must be assumed by his supervisor, and not paid for by the customers of his organization, internal or external. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2737 The fact is that giving such reviews is the single most important form of task-relevant feedback we as supervisors can provide. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2742 But what is its fundamental purpose? Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2743 it is to improve the subordinate’s performance. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2760 The long and short of it: if performance matters in your operation, performance reviews are absolutely necessary. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2767 Anybody who supervises professionals, therefore, walks a tightrope: he needs to be objective, but must not be afraid of using his judgment, even though judgment is by definition subjective. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2770 The biggest problem with most reviews is that we don’t usually define what it is we want from our subordinates, and, as noted earlier, if we don’t know what we want, we are surely not going to get it. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2781 A similar kind of trade-off also has to be considered here: weighing long-term-oriented against short-term- oriented performance. An engineer working on the design of a product needs to complete the project on a strict schedule to generate revenue. He may also be working on a design method that will make it easier for others to design similar products in the future. The engineer obviously needs both activities evaluated and reviewed. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2805 As managers, we are really called upon to judge performance, not just to see and record it when it’s in plain sight. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2811 One big pitfall to be avoided is the “potential trap.” At all times you should force yourself to assess performance, not potential. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2816 the performance rating of a manager cannot be higher than the one we would accord to his organization! Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2825 It is hard enough for us to assess our subordinates’ performance, but we must also try to improve it. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2829 There are three L’s to keep in mind when delivering a review: Level, listen, and leave yourself out. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2843 If his responses—verbal and nonverbal—do not completely assure you that what you’ve said has gotten through, it is your responsibility to keep at it until you are satisfied that you have been heard and understood. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2866 The fact is that a person can only absorb so many messages at one time, especially when they deal with his own performance. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2867 The purpose of the review is not to cleanse your system of all the truths you may have observed about your subordinate, but to improve his performance. So here less may very well be more. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2915 Once responsibility has been assumed, however, finding the solution is relatively easy. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2933 So up to a point you should try to get your subordinate to agree with you. But if you can’t, accept his commitment to change and go on. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2941 If it becomes clear that you are not going to get your subordinate past the blame-others stage, you will have to assume the formal role of the supervisor, endowed with position power, and say, “This is what I, as your boss, am instructing you to do. I understand that you do not see it my way. You may be right or I may be right. But I am not only empowered, I am required by the organization for which we both work to give you instructions, and this is what I want you to do…” And proceed to secure your subordinate’s commitment to the course of action you want and thereafter monitor his performance against that commitment. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2967 Put another way, concentrating on the stars is a high-leverage activity: if they get better, the impact on group output is very great indeed. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2969 We must keep in mind, however, that no matter how stellar a person’s performance level is, there is always room for improvement. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2976 Reviewing the performance of subordinates is a formal act of leadership. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 2994 In my experience, the best thing to do is to give your subordinate the written review sometime before the face-to- face discussion. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3001 Each year I read something like a hundred evaluations, all of those written by my own subordinates and a random selection from throughout Intel. I comment on them and send them back for rewrites or with a complimentary note. I do this with as much noise and visibility as I can, because I want to reiterate and reaffirm the significance the system has and should have for every Intel employee. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3104 So in the end careful interviewing doesn’t guarantee you anything, it merely increases your odds of getting lucky. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3111 He then mutters further that he has decided to leave the company. You look at him wide-eyed. Your initial reaction to his announcement is absolutely crucial. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3114 If you do not deal with the situation right at the first mention, you’ll confirm his feelings and the outcome is inevitable. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3115 Drop what you are doing. Sit him down and ask him why he is quitting. Let him talk—don’t argue about anything with him. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3117 Make him talk, because after the prepared points are delivered, the real issues may come out. Don’t argue, don’t lecture, and don’t panic. Remember, this is only the opening skirmish, not the war. And you cannot win the war here—but you can lose it! You have to convey to him by what you do that he is important to you, and you have to find out what is really troubling him. Don’t try to change his mind at this point, but buy time. After he’s said all he has to say, ask for whatever time you feel is necessary to prepare yourself for the next round. But know that you must follow through on whatever you’ve committed yourself to do. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3127 You now must vigorously pursue every avenue available to you to keep him with the firm, even if it means transferring him to another department. If it seems that is the likely solution, you must become the project manager of that solution until the whole thing is settled. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3135 He might go on to say that you’re only doing it now because he forced you into it, his feeling being that “If I stay, you’ll think of me as the blackmailer forever!” Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3137 You now have to make him feel comfortable with the new arrangement. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3155 At higher levels of compensation, an incremental amount of money gradually will have less and less material utility to the person who gets it. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3210 If we want to use such schemes, we have to come to terms with the principle—troubling to many managers— that any merit-based system requires a competitive, comparative evaluation of individuals. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3218 Promotions must be based on performance, because that is the only way to keep the idea of performance highlighted, maintained, and perpetuated. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3236 If we take a person at point B and don’t offer him more work and greater challenges even though he “exceeds the requirements” of Job 1, we are not fully utilizing a human resource of the company. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3255 In sum, we managers must be responsible and provide our subordinates with honest performance ratings and honest merit-based compensation. If we do, the eventual result will be performance valued for its own sake throughout our organization. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3280 A manager generally has two ways to raise the level of individual performance of his subordinates: by increasing motivation, the desire of each person to do his job well, and by increasing individual capability, which is where training comes in. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3284 Training is, quite simply, one of the highest-leverage activities a manager can perform. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3296 For training to be effective, it also has to maintain a reliable, consistent presence. Employees should be able to count on something systematic and scheduled, not a rescue effort summoned to solve the problem of the moment. In other words, training should be a process, not an event. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3310 We train our managers in disciplines such as strategic planning as well as in the art of constructive confrontation, a problem-solving approach we favor at Intel. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3311 My own training repertoire includes a course on preparing and delivering performance reviews, on conducting productive meetings, and a three-hour-long introduction to Intel, Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3315 At Intel we distinguish between two different training tasks. The first task is teaching new members of our organization the skills needed to perform their jobs. The second task is teaching new ideas, principles, or skills to the present members of our organization. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3324 So what should you do if you embrace the gospel of training? For starters, make a list of the things you feel your subordinates or the members of your department should be trained in. Don’t limit the scope of your list. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3327 Ask the people working for you what they feel they need. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3349 Training is hard work. Preparing lectures and getting yourself ready to handle all the questions thrown at you is difficult. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3351 Much deeper knowledge of a task is required to teach that task than simply to do it. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3369 Define the proper places for the equivalents of receiving inspection, in-process inspection, and final inspection in your work. Decide whether these inspections should be monitoring steps or gate-like. Identify the conditions under which you can relax things and move to a variable inspection scheme. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3373 Identify half a dozen new indicators for your group’s output. They should measure both the quantity and quality of the output. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3375 Install these new indicators as a routine in your work area, and establish their regular review in your staff meetings. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3381 Conduct work simplification on your most tedious, time-consuming task. Eliminate at least 30 percent of the total number of steps involved. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3393 Describe how you will monitor the next project you delegate to a subordinate. What will you look for? How? How frequently? Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3395 Generate an inventory of projects on which you can work at discretionary times. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3397 Hold a scheduled one-on-one with each of your subordinates. (Explain to them in advance what a one-on-one is about. Have them prepare for it.) Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3399 Look at your calendar for the last week. Classify your activities as low-/medium-/high-leverage. Generate a plan of action to do more of the high-leverage category. (What activities will you reduce?) Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3402 Forecast the demand on your time for the next week. What portion of your time is likely to be spent in meetings? Which of these are process-oriented meetings? Mission-oriented meetings? If the latter are over 25 percent of your total time, what should you do to reduce them? Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3414 Give your subordinates a racetrack: define a set of performance indicators for each. Highlight (Yellow) 
 Location 3418 Classify the task-relevant maturity of each of your subordinates as low, medium, or high. Evaluate the management style that would be most appropriate for each. Compare what your own style is with what it should be.