Meetings have a bad name. One school of management thought considers them the curse
of the manager's existence. Someone who did a study found that managers spend up
to 50 percent of their time in meetings, and implied that this was time wasted. Peter
Drucker once said that spending more than 25 percent of his time in meetings is a sign
of a manager's malorganization, and William H. Whyte, Jr., in his book The Organization
Man, described meetings as “non-contributory labor” that managers must endure.
The two basic managerial roles produce two basic kinds of meetings. In the first
kind of meeting, called a process-oriented meeting, knowledge is shared and information
is exchanged. Such meetings take place on a regularly scheduled basis. The purpose of
the second kind of meeting is to solve a specific problem. Meetings of this sort, called
mission-oriented, frequently produce a decision. They are ad hoc affairs, not scheduled
long in advance, because they usually can’t be.
To make the most of this kind of meeting, we should aim to infuse it with regularity. In
other words, the people attending should know how the meeting is run, what kinds of
substantive matters are discussed, and what is to be accomplished. It should be designed
to allow a manager to “batch” transactions, to use the same “production” set-up time and
effort to take care of many similar managerial tasks. Moreover, given the regularity, you
and the others attending can begin to forecast the time required for the kinds of work
to be done. Hence, a “production control” system, as recorded on various calendars, can
take shape, which means that a scheduled meeting will have minimum impact on other
things people are doing.
At Intel we use three kinds of process-oriented meetings: the one-on-one, the staff
meeting, and the operation review.
At Intel, a one-on-one is a meeting between a supervisor and a subordinate, and it
is the principal way their business relationship is maintained. Its main purpose is
mutual teaching and exchange of information. By talking about specific problems and
situations, the supervisor teaches the subordinate his skills and know-how, and suggests
ways to approach things. At the same time, the subordinate provides the supervisor with
detailed information about what he is doing and what he is concerned about. From what
I can tell, regularly scheduled one-on-ones are highly unusual outside of Intel. When I
ask a manager from another company about the practice, I usually get an “Oh no, I don't
need scheduled meetings with my supervisor [or subordinate]; I see him several times a
day...” But there is an enormous difference between a casual encounter by a supervisor
and a subordinate, or even a meeting (mission-oriented) to resolve a specific problem,
and a one-on-one.
When Intel was a young company, I realized that even though I was expected to
supervise both engineering and manufacturing, I knew very little about the company’s
first product line, memory devices. I also didn’t know much about manufacturing
techniques, my background having been entirely in semiconductor device research. So
two of my associates, both of whom reported to me, agreed to give me private lessons
on memory design and manufacturing. These took place by appointment, and involved
a teacher/subordinate preparing for each; during the session the pupil/supervisor busily
took notes, trying to learn. As Intel grew, the initial tone and spirit of such one-on-ones
endured and grew.
Who should have a one-on-one? In some situations a supervisor should perhaps meet
with all those who work under him, from professionals to production operators. But here
I want to talk about one-on-ones between a supervisor and each of the professionals who
report to him directly.
How often should you have one-on-ones? Or put another way, how do you decide
how often somebody needs such a meeting? The answer is the job- or task-relevant
maturity of each of your subordinates. In other words, how much experience does a
given subordinate have with the specific task at hand? This is not the same as the
experience he has in general or how old he is. As we will see later, the most effective
management style in a specific instance varies from very close to very loose supervision
as a subordinate’s task maturity increases. Accordingly, you should have one-on-
ones frequently (for example, once a week) with a subordinate who is inexperienced
in a specific situation and less frequently (perhaps once every few weeks) with an
Another consideration here is how quickly things change in a job area. In marketing,
for example, the pace may be so rapid that a supervisor needs to have frequent one-
on-ones to keep current on what’s happening. But in a research environment, life may
be quieter, and for a given level of task-relevant maturity, less frequent meetings may
How long should a one-on-one meeting last? There really is no answer to this, but the
subordinate must feel that there is enough time to broach and get into thorny issues.
Look at it this way. If you had a big problem that you wanted to kick around with your
supervisor—the person whose professional interest in the matter is second only to yours
—would you want to bring it up in a meeting scheduled to last only fifteen minutes? You
would not. I feel that a one-on-one should last an hour at a minimum. Anything less, in
my experience, tends to make the subordinate confine himself to simple things that can
be handled quickly.
Where should a one-on-one take place? In the supervisor's office, in the subordinate’s
office, or somewhere else? I think you should have the meeting in or near the
subordinate’s work area if possible. A supervisor can learn a lot simply by going to
his subordinate’s office. Is he organized or not? Does he repeatedly have to spend time
looking for a document he wants? Does he get interrupted all the time? Never? And in
general, how does the subordinate approach his work?
A key point about a one-on-one: It should be regarded as the subordinate’s meeting,
with its agenda and tone set by him. There’s good reason for this. Somebody needs to
prepare for the meeting. The supervisor with eight subordinates would have to prepare
eight times; the subordinate only once. So the latter should be asked to prepare an
outline, which is very important because it forces him to think through in advance all of
the isswes and points he plans to raise. Moreover, with an outline, the supervisor knows
at the outset what is to be covered and can therefore help to set the pace of the meeting
according to the “meatiness” of the items on the agenda. An outline also provides
a framework for supporting information, which the subordinate should prepare in
advance. The subordinate should then walk the supervisor through all the material.
What should be covered in a one-on-one? We can start with performance figures,
indicators used by the subordinate, such as incoming order rates, production output, or
project status. Emphasis should be on indicators that signal trouble. The meeting should
also cover anything important that has happened since the last meeting: current hiring
problems, people problems in general, organizational problems and future plans, and—
very, very important—potential problems. Even when a problem isn’t tangible, even if
it’s only an intuition that something’s wrong, a subordinate owes it to his supervisor to
tell him, because it triggers a look into the organizational black box. The most important
criterion governing matters to be talked about is that they be issues that preoccupy and
nag the subordinate. These are often obscure and take time to surface, consider, and
What is the role of the supervisor in a one-on-one? He should facilitate the
subordinate’s expression of what's going on and what's bothering him. The supervisor is
there to learn and to coach. Peter Drucker sums up the supervisor's job here very nicely:
“The good time users among managers do not talk to their subordinates about their
problems but they know how to make the subordinates talk about theirs.”
How is this done? By applying Grove's Principle of Didactic Management, “Ask one
more question!” When the supervisor thinks the subordinate has said all he wants to
about a subject, he should ask another question. He should try to keep the flow of
thoughts coming by prompting the subordinate with queries until both feel satisfied
that they have gotten to the bottom of a problem.
I'd like to suggest some mechanical hints for effective one-on-one meetings. First,
both the supervisor and subordinate should have a copy of the outline and both should
take notes on it, which serves a number of purposes. I take notes in just about all
circumstances, and most often end up never looking at them again. I do it to keep my
mind from drifting and also to help me digest the information I hear and see. Since I take
notes in outline form, I am forced to categorize the information logically, which helps me
to absorb it. Equally important is what “writing it down” symbolizes. Many issues in a
one-on-one lead to action required on the part of the subordinate. When he takes a note
immediately following the supervisor's suggestion, the act implies a commitment, like
a handshake, that something will be done. The supervisor, also having taken notes, can
then follow up at the next one-on-one.
A real time-saver is using a “hold” file where both the supervisor and subordinate
accumulate important but not altogether urgent issues for discussion at the next
meeting. This kind of file applies the production principle of batching and saves time
for both involved by minimizing the need for ad hoc contact—like phone calls, drop-in
visits, and so on—which constitute the interruptions we considered earlier.
The supervisor should also encourage the discussion of heart-to-heart issues during
one-on-ones, because this is the perfect forum for getting at subtle and deep work-
related problems affecting his subordinate. Is he satisfied with his own performance?
Does some frustration or obstacle gnaw at him? Does he have doubts about where he
is going? But the supervisor should be wary of the “zinger,” which is a heart-to-heart
issue brought up at an awkward time. More often than not, these come near the end
of a meeting. If you let that happen, the subordinate might tell you something like he’s
unhappy and has been looking outside for a job and give you only five minutes to deal
Long-distance telephone one-on-ones have become necessary because many
organizations are now spread out geographically. But these can work well enough with
proper preparation and attention: the supervisor must have the outline before the
meeting begins, both parties should take notes, and so on. Because you can't see the
other participant in the meeting, note-taking can’t work in the same way as in a face-
to-face meeting. Exchanging notes after the meeting is a way to make sure each knows
what the other committed himself to do.
One-on-ones should be scheduled on a rolling basis—setting up the next one as the
meeting taking place ends. Other commitments can thereby be taken into account and
cancellations avoided. If the supervisor uses a set schedule for a one-on-one, such as
every second Wednesday morning, and if the subordinate’s vacation happens to fall on
that date, the meeting is not going to occur. By scheduling on a rolling basis, this can be
What is the leverage of the one-on-one? Let’s say you have a one-on-one with your
subordinate every two weeks, and it lasts one and a half hours. Ninety minutes of your
time can enhance the quality of your subordinate’s work for two weeks, or for some
eighty-plus hours, and also upgrade your understanding of what he’s doing. Clearly,
one-on-ones can exert enormous leverage. This happens through the development of a
common base of information and similar ways of doing and handling things between
the supervisor and the subordinate. And this, as noted, is the only way in which efficient
and effective delegation can take place.
At the same time, the subordinate teaches the supervisor, and what is learned is
absolutely essential if the supervisor is to make good decisions. During a recent one-on-
one meeting, my subordinate, who is responsible for Intel's sales organization, reviewed
trend indicators of incoming orders. While I was vaguely familiar with them, he laid out
a lot of specific information and convinced me that our business had stopped growing.
Even though the summer is typically slow, he proved to me that what was going on
was not just seasonal. After we pondered the data for a while and considered their
relationship to other indicators of business activity in our industry, we came to the
reluctant conclusion that business was in fact slowing down. This meant we should take
a conservative approach to near-term investment—no small matter.
By sharing his base of information with me, the two of us developed a congruent
attitude, approach, and conclusion: conservatism in our expansion plans. He left the
meeting having decided to scale back growth in his own area of responsibility. I left
having decided to share what we had concluded with the business groups I supervised.
Thus, this one-on-one produced substantial leverage: the Intel sales manager affected all
the other managers who reported to me.
To digress a bit, I also think that one-on-ones at home can help family life. As the
father of two teenage daughters, I have found that the conversation in such a time
together is very different in tone and kind from what we say to each other in other
circumstances. The one-on-one makes each of us take the other seriously and allows
subtle and complicated matters to come up for discussion. Obviously, no notes are taken,
as father and daughter usually go out for dinner at a restaurant, but a family one-on-one
very much resembles a business one-on-one. I strongly recommend both practices.
A staff meeting is one in which a supervisor and all of his subordinates participate, and
which therefore presents an opportunity for interaction among peers. As we will see
later, peer interaction—especially decision-making by a group of peers—is not easy. Yet
it is key to good management. The approach to decision-making that we advocate in
the next chapter, as well as the workings of the principle of dual reporting (Chapter 9),
depend on a group of peers working well together. By learning how this happens in staff
meetings, where a group of peers get to know each other, and where the presence of a
common supervisor helps peer interaction to develop, managers will be prepared to be
members of other working bodies based on peer groups.
Staff meetings also create opportunities for the supervisor to learn from the
exchange and confrontation that often develops. In my own case, I get a much better
understanding of an issue with which I am not familiar by listening to two people with
opposing views discuss it than I do by listening to one side only.
My first experience with staff meetings dates back to my early professional years
when I was the head of a small group of engineers doing semiconductor device research.
Everyone in this group worked on an isolated aspect of a problem or on a different
problem altogether. I was supposed to be the supervisor, but I found that others in the
group were often more familiar with the work of another researcher than I was. Thus, a
group discussion on any subject tended to get more detailed and more heated, but always
more rewarding, than an exchange between me and one other specialist.
What should be discussed at a staff meeting? Anything that affects more than two of
the people present. If the meeting degenerates into a conversation between two people
working on a problem affecting only them, the supervisor should break it off and move
on to something else that will include more of the staff, while suggesting that the two
continue their exchange later.
How structured should the meeting be? A free-for-all brainstorming session or
controlled with a detailed agenda? It should be mostly controlled, with an agenda issued
far enough in advance that the subordinates will have had the chance to prepare their
thoughts for the meeting. But it should also include an “open session”—a designated
period of time for the staff to bring up anything they want. This is when a varied set of
housekeeping matters can be disposed of, as well as when important issues can be given
a tentative first look. If it is justified, you can provide time for a more formal discussion
about an issue in the scheduled portion of a future meeting.
What is the role of the supervisor in the staff meeting—a leader, observer, expediter,
questioner, decision-maker? The answer, of course, is all of them. Please note that
lecturer is not listed. A supervisor should never use staff meetings to pontificate, which
is the surest way to undermine free discussion and hence the meeting's basic purpose.
The figure opposite shows that the supervisor’s most important roles are being a
meeting’s moderator and facilitator, and controller of its pace and thrust. Ideally, the
supervisor should keep things on track, with the subordinates bearing the brunt of
working the issues. Staff meetings are an ideal medium for decision-making, because the
group of managers present has typically worked together for a long time. The formal as
well as informal authority of each individual has been well established, and everybody
knows who likes to spout off, who tends to daydream, who knows what stuff and so on.
A staff meeting is like the dinner-table conversation of a family, while other forums of
interaction at work, involving people who don’t know each other very well, are like a
group of strangers having to make a decision together.
INACTIVE ON TRACK REGION
The supervisor's effort at a staff meeting should go into keeping the discussion
on track, with the subordinates bearing the brunt of working the issues.
This is the medium of interaction for people who don’t otherwise have much
opportunity to deal with one another. The format here should include formal
presentations in which managers describe their work to other managers who are not
their immediate supervisors, and to peers in other parts of the company. The basic
purpose of an operation review at Intel is to keep the teaching and learning going on
between employees several organizational levels apart—people who don’t have one-on-
ones or staff meetings with each other. This is important for both the junior and senior
manager. The junior person will benefit from the comments, criticisms, and suggestions
of the senior manager, who in turn will get a different feel for problems from people
familiar with their details. Such meetings are also a source of motivation: managers
making the presentations will want to leave a good impression on their supervisor's
supervisor and on their outside peers.
Who are the players at an operation review? The organizing manager, the reviewing
manager, the presenters, and the audience. Each of these players has a distinct role to
play if the review is to be a useful one.
The supervisor of the presenting managers—an Intel divisional marketing manager,
let’s say—should organize the meeting. He should help the presenters decide what issues
should be talked about and what should not, what should be emphasized, and what level
of detail to go into. The supervisor should also be in charge of housekeeping (the meeting
room, visual materials, invitations, and so on). Finally, he should be the timekeeper,
scheduling the presentations and keeping them moving along. Though it’s hard to judge
in advance the time needed for any discussion, the supervisor has presumably had
more experience running meetings. In any case, he should pace the presenters using
inconspicuous gestures, so that the manager talking doesn't suddenly find himself out
of time with only half his points covered.
The reviewing manager is the senior supervisor at whom the review is aimed—
like the general manager of an Intel division. He has a very important although more
subtle role to play: he should ask questions, make comments, and in general impart
the appropriate spirit to the meeting. He is the catalyst needed to provoke audience
participation, and by his example he should encourage free expression. He should never
preview the material, since that will keep him from reacting spontaneously. Because the
senior supervisor is a role model for the junior managers present, he should take his role
at the review extremely seriously.
The people presenting the reviews—a group of marketing supervisors, for example—
should use visual aids such as overhead transparencies to the extent possible. People are
endowed with eyes as well as ears, and the simultaneous use of both definitely helps
the audience understand the points being made. But care must be taken, because all too
frequently a presenter gets so obsessed with getting through all of his visual material
that his message gets lost even while all his charts get flipped. As a rule of thumb, I would
recommend four minutes of presentation and discussion time per visual aid, which can
include tables, numbers, or graphics. The presenter must highlight whatever he wants
to emphasize with a color pen or pointer. Throughout, a presenter has to watch his
audience like a hawk. Facial expressions and body language, among other things, will tell
him if people are getting the message, if he needs to stop and go over something again, or
if he is boring them and should speed up.
The audience at an operation review also has a crucial part to play. One of the
distinguishing marks of a good meeting is that the audience participates by asking
questions and making comments. If you avoid the presenter’s eyes, yawn, or read the
newspaper it’s worse than not being there at all. Lack of interest undermines the
confidence of the presenter. Remember that you are spending a big part of your working
day at the review. Make that time as valuable for yourself and your organization as you
can. Pay attention and jot down things you've heard that you might try. Ask questions if
something is not clear to you and speak up if you can’t go along with an approach being
recommended. And if a presenter makes a factual error, it is your responsibility to go on
record. Remember, you are being paid to attend the meeting, which is not meant to bea
siesta in the midst of an otherwise busy day. Regard attendance at the meeting for what
it is: work.
Unlike a process-oriented meeting, which is a regularly scheduled affair held to
exchange knowledge and information, the mission-oriented meeting is usually held ad
hoc and is designed to produce a specific output, frequently a decision. The key to
success here is what the chairman does, Very often no one is officially given that title, but
by whatever name, one person usually has more at stake in the outcome of the meeting
than others. In fact, it is usually the chairman or the de facto chairman who calls the
meeting, and most of what he contributes should occur before it begins. All too often he
shows up as if he were just another attendee and hopes that things will develop as he
wants. When a mission-oriented meeting fails to accomplish the purpose for which it
was called, the blame belongs to the chairman.
Thus the chairman must have a clear understanding of the meeting's objective—what
needs to happen and what decision has to be made. The absolute truth is that if you don’t
know what you want, you won't get it. So before calling a meeting, ask yourself: What
am [trying to accomplish? Then ask, is a meeting necessary? Or desirable? Or justifiable?
Don't call a meeting if all the answers aren't yes.
An estimate of the dollar cost of a manager’s time, including overhead, is about
$100 per hour. So a meeting involving ten managers for two hours costs the company
$2,000. Most expenditures of $2,000 have to be approved in advance by senior people—
like buying a copying machine or making a transatlantic trip—yet a manager can calla
meeting and commit $2,000 worth of managerial resources at a whim. So even if you're
just an invited participant, you should ask yourself if the meeting—and your attendance
—is desirable and justified. Tell the chairman—the person who invited you—if you do
not feel it is. Determine the purpose of a meeting before committing your time and
your company’s resources, Get it called off early, at a low-value-added stage, if a meeting
makes no sense, and find a less costly way (a one-on-one meeting, a telephone call, a
note) to pursue the matter.
Assuming the meeting does need to be held, the chairman faces a set of obligations.
The first one has to do with attendance. As the chairman, you must identify who should
attend and then try to get those people to come. It is not enough to ask people and hope
for the best; you need to follow up and get commitments. If someone invited can't make
it himself, see to it that he sends a person with the power to speak for him.
Keep in mind that a meeting called to make a specific decision is hard to keep moving
if more than six or seven people attend. Eight people should be the absolute cutoff.
Decision-making is not a spectator sport, because onlookers get in the way of what needs
to be done.
The chairman is also responsible for maintaining discipline. It is criminal for him to
allow people to be late and waste everyone's time. Remember, wasting time here really
means that you are wasting the company’s money, with the meter ticking away at the
rate of $100 per hour per person. Do not worry about confronting the late arriver. Just
as you would not permit a fellow employee to steal a piece of office equipment worth
$2,000, you shouldn't let anyone walk away with the time of his fellow managers.
The chairman should finally be responsible for logistical matters. He should, for
example, make sure that all necessary and audiovisual equipment is present in the
meeting room. He should also send out an agenda that clearly states the purpose of
the meeting, as well as what role everybody there is expected to play to get the desired
output. An example of such an agenda is shown below.
To: Far East Plant Manager
Corporate Construction Manager
From: Far East Construction Manager
Subject: Philippines Plant Location Decision
Friday, October 1
11:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m.
Santa Clara Conference Room 212
Teleconference connection to Phoenix Conference Room 4
Purpose of meeting: To decide specific location for
Philippine plant expansion
11:00-11:30 Manufacturing considerations (FE. Plant Manager)
11:30-12:00 Construction considerations (F.E. Construction Manager)
12:00-12:45 Review of alternatives, including (F.E. Construction Manager)
12:45-1:00 Discussion (All)
This may sound like too much regimentation for you, but whether it’s that or needed
discipline depends on your point of view. If the chairman forces you to show up ata
Meeting prepared and on time, you might consider him a drill sergeant. But if you show
up on time, ready to work, and someone else doesn't and isn’t, you'll probably begrudge
the person responsible for wasting your time, It must be much the same in an operating
room. Some people working there may not like a surgeon insisting upon precision, but
Iam one patient who would much prefer a disciplined operating room to any other kind.
Once the meeting is over, the chairman must nail down exactly what happened by
sending out minutes that summarize the discussion that occurred, the decision made,
and the actions to be taken. And it’s very important that attendees get the minutes
quickly, before they forget what happened. The minutes should also be as clear and as
specific as possible, telling the reader what is to be done, who is to do it, and when.
All this may seem like too much trouble, but if the meeting was worth calling in the
first place, the work needed to produce the minutes is a small additional investment (an
activity with high leverage) to ensure that the full benefit is obtained from what was
Ideally, a manager should never have to call an ad hoc, mission-oriented meeting,
because if all runs smoothly, everything is taken care of in regularly scheduled, process-
oriented meetings. In practice, however, if all goes well, routine meetings will take
care of maybe 80 percent of the problems and issues; the remaining 20 percent will
still have to be dealt with in mission-oriented meetings. Remember, Peter Drucker said
that if people spend more than 25 percent of their time in meetings, it is a sign of
malorganization. I would put it another way: the real sign of malorganization is when
people spend more than 25 percent of their time in ad hoc mission-oriented meetings.